---
title: "IPv6, headless client, and more"
date: 2010-06-26T23:17:51.000Z
type: "forum-post"
source: "bitcointalk"
sourceUrl: "https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=218.msg1820#msg1820"
author: "HarryS"
participants:
  - name: "HarryS"
    slug: "harrys"
description: "Thread starter by HarryS in BitcoinTalk topic 218."
isSatoshi: false
tags: []
---

Hello, I heard about this project around freenode, and I really like the idea.

I am wondering if there is a chance you could develop a fully headless version, but with controlling options? Maybe something similar to ncurses work, like rtorrent? So we can make and share bitcoins on headless computers, while still having the ease and control of te GUI interface?

Another suggestion that would be nice would be an update module, if you are running an old version (don't know if there is already, didn't look around much).

Boot strapping to a different type of medium, as well as IRC, would be an improvement as well. Maybe something similar to Bittorrent trackers? Some ISPs block IRC, and some people dislike the thought of IRC.

Lastly, IPv6 support would be pretty awesome, if possible. Then people would worry less about the IRC bootstrapping, I'd think.

I am also running bitcond 1.3 (RC?) that satoshi just posted. How do I use it though? There aren't many docs on using bitcoind... it just said "starting bitcoin server", and my IP appears in the #bitcoin room on irc.lfnet.org. How would I figure out my bitcoin address, how many coins I have, send to other people, etc?

I am no C programmer, so I would not be able to implant any of these suggestions, but I would hope that it could be possible 

Thanks in advance!
