---
title: "Re: Forum"
date: 2009-11-16T21:10:22Z
source: correspondence
sourceUrl: "https://mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/"
author: "Satoshi Nakamoto"
participants:
  - name: "Satoshi Nakamoto"
    slug: "satoshi-nakamoto"
  - name: "Martti Malmi"
    slug: "martti-malmi"
description: "That's a good idea to go in a more web-publishing CMS type direction"
isSatoshi: true
threadId: "satoshi-martti-malmi"
threadTitle: "Satoshi \u2194 Martti Malmi Correspondence"
threadPosition: 90
tags:
  - "correspondence"
  - "early-contributor"
  - "forum"
secondarySources:
  - name: "Martti Malmi's Published Email Archive"
    url: "https://mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/"
  - name: "COPA v. Wright Trial Exhibits"
    url: "https://www.opencrypto.org/2024-02-22-witnesses-satoshi-correspondence/"
---

That's a good idea to go in a more web-publishing CMS type direction 
like Drupal.  That's a better fit and can produce a better looking 
website than a wiki.  I think I was wrong about wiki.  Only a few 
specific people will do any website design work and those people can go 
ahead and have a separate login.  In that case, login integration with 
the forum doesn't matter much.  For security, I'd almost rather have a 
different login than be constantly checking the forum with the same 
login that could pwn the website.

Drupal's forum is less bad than the wikis, but still a long way from 
something I would want to use.

zetaboards pros and cons:

pros:
- we don't have to worry about bandwidth
- they handle the backend management and security patches

con:
- lack of SSL
- lack of privacy, everything is logged
- lack of control over the php code for customization
- no CAPTCHA, and if they add one later it might be unacceptable flash
- ads (could pay to get rid of them later if we care enough)
- there's always the risk they abruptly cancel the site for some petty 
reason


mmalmi@cc.hut.fi wrote:
>> What do you see as the benefits of switching the wiki?
>> Some I can think of:
>>  SSL
>>  get away from sourceforge's unreliable hosting
>>  everything not logged by sourceforge
> 
> I think the biggest advantage is having a single site so you don't need 
> a separate account for the wiki and the forum, and the functionalities 
> are also nicely integrated with the main site itself. Also being ad-free 
> is a plus.
> 
>> The forum feature is about as weak as bitweaver.  We need a full blown
>> forum software for that.
> 
> How about Drupal's forum functionality? Address: 
> https://174.143.149.98/drupal/. The CMS in general looks better and 
> simpler than TikiWiki. If the forum's not good enough, then we can of 
> course use a specialized forum software like phpBB.
> 
>> My priority right now is to get a forum going, either phpBB or similar.
>>  What do you think of the zetaboards option?  Should we go ahead with
>> that?
> 
> Otherwise fine, but the ads and the lack of SSL are a minus.
>

*Source: Published by Martti Malmi on GitHub in February 2024 as part of his testimony in the COPA v. Wright trial. The full correspondence archive is available at mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/.*
