---
title: "Re: Linux update"
date: 2009-11-15T17:55:35Z
source: correspondence
sourceUrl: "https://mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/"
author: "Martti Malmi"
participants:
  - name: "Satoshi Nakamoto"
    slug: "satoshi-nakamoto"
  - name: "Martti Malmi"
    slug: "martti-malmi"
description: "The program terminated a few times with the same error in debug.log"
isSatoshi: false
threadId: "satoshi-martti-malmi"
threadTitle: "Satoshi \u2194 Martti Malmi Correspondence"
threadPosition: 82
tags:
  - "correspondence"
  - "early-contributor"
  - "linux"
secondarySources:
  - name: "Martti Malmi's Published Email Archive"
    url: "https://mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/"
  - name: "COPA v. Wright Trial Exhibits"
    url: "https://www.opencrypto.org/2024-02-22-witnesses-satoshi-correspondence/"
---

The program terminated a few times with the same error in debug.log  
close: Bad file descriptor
blkindex.dat: Bad file descriptor

I'm running a 64-bit Ubuntu distribution.

> The only problem now is the DB exceptions he's getting.
> ************************
> EXCEPTION: 11DbException
> Db::open: Bad file descriptor
> bitcoin in ThreadMessageHandler()
> ************************
> EXCEPTION: 11DbException
> Db::close: Bad file descriptor
> bitcoin in ThreadMessageHandler()
>
> I had expected those to be a Wine problem, but he's getting them on
> Linux just the same.  He tried moving the datadir to a different drive,
> no help.  I've never gotten them.  I'm running a stress test that
> continuously generates a lot of activity and DB access and never got it.
>
> He has Ubuntu 64-bit and I have 32-bit, so I'm assuming that's the
> difference.  Is your Linux machine 64-bit or 32-bit?  Have you ever had
> a DB exception? (see db.log also)  Now that the zombie problem is fixed
> in test5, could you start running it on your Linux machine?  We could
> use a 3rd vote to get a better idea of what we're dealing with here.
> The DB exception is uncaught, so it'll stop the program if you get it.
>
> BTW, zetaboards insists on displaying "Member #", so you better sign up
> soon and grab a good account number.

*Source: Published by Martti Malmi on GitHub in February 2024 as part of his testimony in the COPA v. Wright trial. The full correspondence archive is available at mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/.*
