---
title: "Re: Bitcoin.org"
date: 2009-11-30T20:34:20Z
source: correspondence
sourceUrl: "https://mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/"
author: "Satoshi Nakamoto"
participants:
  - name: "Satoshi Nakamoto"
    slug: "satoshi-nakamoto"
  - name: "Martti Malmi"
    slug: "martti-malmi"
description: "Thanks, I haven't settled on a theme yet.  My first experiment was to"
isSatoshi: true
threadId: "satoshi-martti-malmi"
threadTitle: "Satoshi \u2194 Martti Malmi Correspondence"
threadPosition: 117
tags:
  - "correspondence"
  - "early-contributor"
  - "bitcoin-org"
secondarySources:
  - name: "Martti Malmi's Published Email Archive"
    url: "https://mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/"
  - name: "COPA v. Wright Trial Exhibits"
    url: "https://www.opencrypto.org/2024-02-22-witnesses-satoshi-correspondence/"
---

Thanks, I haven't settled on a theme yet.  My first experiment was to 
try something besides yet another blue site.  Another line of thought is 
that it should be like a bank website, stately, professional and 
official looking to support confidence in financial matters.

The logo's a little too Disco/web-1990's.  I still like your bitweaver 
one better, I recreated it with text as a placeholder for now.  When the 
theme is more settled, I'll think about a matching logo.

Good idea about the Sourceforge tag, we can use all the graphics we can get.

I have more to do before we go live, and we need to give the search 
engines more time.

mmalmi@cc.hut.fi wrote:
> I autogenerated the new logo at http://cooltext.com/, it's a good quick 
> solution. You can try a wide variety of different logo styles there if 
> you have the patience for the slow user interface.
> 
>> It would be also great if you can get the Sourceforge logo from the SF
>> project admin and add it to the site footer.
>>
>>> The current site layout looks nice and simple. The logo just should be
>>> changed. If we want to go live quickly, we can just replace it with the
>>> site title and make a better logo later.
>>>
>>> If we need help with site administration or contacts to professional
>>> web graphic artists, we can ask Dave. He does Drupal stuff for work.
> 
> 
>

*Source: Published by Martti Malmi on GitHub in February 2024 as part of his testimony in the COPA v. Wright trial. The full correspondence archive is available at mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/.*
