---
title: "Re: Setup, Autorun, v0.1.6"
date: 2009-10-18T21:02:28Z
source: correspondence
sourceUrl: "https://mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/"
author: "Martti Malmi"
participants:
  - name: "Satoshi Nakamoto"
    slug: "satoshi-nakamoto"
  - name: "Martti Malmi"
    slug: "martti-malmi"
description: "Well, the code worked and made a shortcut in the startup folder. For"
isSatoshi: false
threadId: "satoshi-martti-malmi"
threadTitle: "Satoshi \u2194 Martti Malmi Correspondence"
threadPosition: 37
tags:
  - "correspondence"
  - "early-contributor"
secondarySources:
  - name: "Martti Malmi's Published Email Archive"
    url: "https://mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/"
  - name: "COPA v. Wright Trial Exhibits"
    url: "https://www.opencrypto.org/2024-02-22-witnesses-satoshi-correspondence/"
---

Well, the code worked and made a shortcut in the startup folder. For  
some reason it didn't automatically start when booting, but worked  
fine when you clicked on it in the menu. Now I tried making a shortcut  
manually, and this time it works on autostart, don't know why. I could  
try again with the older code.

> I got it, I see you checked in the startup folder code before changing
> it to registry.  I don't see any visible problems in the code.  I guess
> it depends what exactly the problem was with it not always working by
> default.  Was there a Vista/UAC security problem?
>
> Satoshi Nakamoto wrote:
>> What was the problem with the shortcut in the startup folder?  If    
>> you could send me the code, I'd like to take another look and see    
>> if I can see what the problem was.  The first strcat in the    
>> registry code should be strcpy, otherwise it would fail    
>> intermittently.  If the same code was in the shortcut one, maybe    
>> that was the problem.
>>
>> mmalmi@cc.hut.fi wrote:
>>> I made a Windows installer for the latest version of Bitcoin,    
>>> which includes the autostart and minimize to tray features. The    
>>> installer makes a start menu shortcut and a startup registry    
>>> entry. I first implemented the autostart with a shortcut to the    
>>> startup folder, but I found out that it doesn't always work by    
>>> default and ended up doing it with a registry entry. The registry   
>>>  entry is removed by the uninstaller and can be also disabled from  
>>>   the options menu, so I don't think it's such a big menace to the  
>>>   user after all.

*Source: Published by Martti Malmi on GitHub in February 2024 as part of his testimony in the COPA v. Wright trial. The full correspondence archive is available at mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/.*
