---
title: "Re: Setup, Autorun, v0.1.6"
date: 2009-10-18T17:59:42Z
source: correspondence
sourceUrl: "https://mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/"
author: "Satoshi Nakamoto"
participants:
  - name: "Satoshi Nakamoto"
    slug: "satoshi-nakamoto"
  - name: "Martti Malmi"
    slug: "martti-malmi"
description: "I got it, I see you checked in the startup folder code before changing"
isSatoshi: true
threadId: "satoshi-martti-malmi"
threadTitle: "Satoshi \u2194 Martti Malmi Correspondence"
threadPosition: 36
tags:
  - "correspondence"
  - "early-contributor"
secondarySources:
  - name: "Martti Malmi's Published Email Archive"
    url: "https://mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/"
  - name: "COPA v. Wright Trial Exhibits"
    url: "https://www.opencrypto.org/2024-02-22-witnesses-satoshi-correspondence/"
---

I got it, I see you checked in the startup folder code before changing 
it to registry.  I don't see any visible problems in the code.  I guess 
it depends what exactly the problem was with it not always working by 
default.  Was there a Vista/UAC security problem?

Satoshi Nakamoto wrote:
> What was the problem with the shortcut in the startup folder?  If you 
> could send me the code, I'd like to take another look and see if I can 
> see what the problem was.  The first strcat in the registry code should 
> be strcpy, otherwise it would fail intermittently.  If the same code was 
> in the shortcut one, maybe that was the problem.
> 
> mmalmi@cc.hut.fi wrote:
>> I made a Windows installer for the latest version of Bitcoin, which 
>> includes the autostart and minimize to tray features. The installer 
>> makes a start menu shortcut and a startup registry entry. I first 
>> implemented the autostart with a shortcut to the startup folder, but I 
>> found out that it doesn't always work by default and ended up doing it 
>> with a registry entry. The registry entry is removed by the 
>> uninstaller and can be also disabled from the options menu, so I don't 
>> think it's such a big menace to the user after all.

*Source: Published by Martti Malmi on GitHub in February 2024 as part of his testimony in the COPA v. Wright trial. The full correspondence archive is available at mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/.*
