---
title: "Re: Bitcoin"
date: 2009-05-05T17:39:44Z
source: correspondence
sourceUrl: "https://mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/"
author: "Satoshi Nakamoto"
participants:
  - name: "Satoshi Nakamoto"
    slug: "satoshi-nakamoto"
  - name: "Martti Malmi"
    slug: "martti-malmi"
description: "mmalmi@cc.hut.fi wrote:"
isSatoshi: true
threadId: "satoshi-martti-malmi"
threadTitle: "Satoshi \u2194 Martti Malmi Correspondence"
threadPosition: 8
tags:
  - "correspondence"
  - "early-contributor"
secondarySources:
  - name: "Martti Malmi's Published Email Archive"
    url: "https://mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/"
  - name: "COPA v. Wright Trial Exhibits"
    url: "https://www.opencrypto.org/2024-02-22-witnesses-satoshi-correspondence/"
---

mmalmi@cc.hut.fi wrote:
>> You can create whatever you want on bitcoin.sourceforge.net.  Something
>> to get new users up to speed on what Bitcoin is and how to use it and
>> why, and clean and professional looking would help make it look well
>> established.  The site at bitcoin.org was designed in a more
>> professorial style when I was presenting the design paper on the
>> Cryptography list, but we're moving on from that phase.
> 
> Ok. Could you set the project MySQL database passwords so that I can set 
> up a CMS on the site? I was thinking about WordPress, as it seems simple 
> and well maintained. I need a password for the read/write account and 
> one database (or the database admin pass to create it myself). This can 
> be done somewhere in the project admin pages, I think.

They have Wordpress built in, you might not need to set up any database 
stuff manually.  I enabled the Wordpress feature and added you as an 
admin, account sirius-m, e-mail sirius-m@users.sourceforge.net.  I'm not 
sure how it works out the password for access, maybe it's just based on 
being logged in to sourceforge.

https://apps.sourceforge.net/wordpress/bitcoin/wp-admin/

They also have support for MediaWiki if you want it.

In case you still need it, here's the accounts and passwords for mysql.

# Access this project's databases over the Internet 
https://apps.sourceforge.net/admin/Bitcoin
# Documentation: Guide to MySQL Database Services 
http://p.sf.net/sourceforge/mysql
# Hostname: mysql-b   (exactly as shown, with no domain suffix)
# Database name prefix: b244765_ -- i.e. "CREATE DATABASE b244765_myapp" 
as your ADMIN user.
# RO user: b244765ro (SELECT)
# RW user: b244765rw (SELECT, INSERT, DELETE, UPDATE)
# ADMIN user: b244765admin (has RW account privileges, and CREATE, DROP, 
ALTER, INDEX, LOCK TABLES)
# web-access URL: https://mysql-b.sourceforge.net/
passwords:
b244765ro       EaG3nHLL
b244765rw       sNKgyt4W
b244765admin    Mz589ZKf


> ...the difference being, though, that not everyone can easily
> transfer their regular bank money into an uncontrollable location. In
> bitcoin anyone can do it.

That's true.

We shouldn't try to use security against identity theft as a selling 
point, since it leads into these counter arguments.  The current banking 
model is already tested and the actual loss percentage is known.  Even 
if ours is probably better, it's an unknown, so people can imagine 
anything.  The uncertainty about what the average loss percentage will 
be is greater than the likely loss percentage itself.

*Source: Published by Martti Malmi on GitHub in February 2024 as part of his testimony in the COPA v. Wright trial. The full correspondence archive is available at mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/.*
