---
title: "Re: Bitcoin"
date: 2009-08-24T22:00:35Z
source: correspondence
sourceUrl: "https://mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/"
author: "Satoshi Nakamoto"
participants:
  - name: "Satoshi Nakamoto"
    slug: "satoshi-nakamoto"
  - name: "Martti Malmi"
    slug: "martti-malmi"
description: "That's a good point that since you know how many coins exist and how"
isSatoshi: true
threadId: "satoshi-martti-malmi"
threadTitle: "Satoshi \u2194 Martti Malmi Correspondence"
threadPosition: 28
tags:
  - "correspondence"
  - "early-contributor"
secondarySources:
  - name: "Martti Malmi's Published Email Archive"
    url: "https://mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/"
  - name: "COPA v. Wright Trial Exhibits"
    url: "https://www.opencrypto.org/2024-02-22-witnesses-satoshi-correspondence/"
---

That's a good point that since you know how many coins exist and how 
fast new ones are created, you could set a support price based on the 
amount of legacy currency you have and be sure you'll have enough to 
meet all demands.  I had imagined an auction, but it would be far 
simpler and more confidence inspiring to back it at a specific exchange 
rate.

Offering currency to back bitcoins would attract freebie seekers, with 
the benefit of attracting a lot of publicity.  At first it would mostly 
be seen as a way to get free money for your computer's idle time.  Maybe 
pitched like help support the future of e-commerce and get a little 
money for your computer's spare cycles.  As people cash in and actually 
get paid, word would spread exponentially.

It might help to keep the minimum transaction size above an amount which 
a typical user would be able to accumulate with one computer, so that 
users have to trade with each other for someone to collect enough to 
cash in.  Aggregators would set up shop to buy bitcoins in smaller 
increments, which would add confidence in users ability to sell bitcoins 
if there are more available buyers than just you.

People would obviously be sceptical at first that the backing will hold 
up against an onslaught of people trying to get the free money, but as 
the competition raises the proof-of-work difficulty, it should become 
clear that bitcoins stay scarce.  People will see that they can't just 
get all the bitcoins they want.  It would establish a minimum value 
under bitcoins enabling them to be used for other purposes if, 
hopefully, other purposes are waiting for something to use.

>> It would help if there was something for people to use it for.  We need
>> an application to bootstrap it.  Any ideas?
> 
> I've been thinking about a currency exchange service that sells and
> buys bitcoins for euros and other currencies. Direct exchangeability
> to an existing currency would give bitcoin the best possible initial
> liquidity and thus the best adoptability for new users. Everyone
> accepts payment in coins that are easily exchangeable for common
> money, but not everyone accepts payment in coins that are only
> guaranteed to buy a specific kind of a product.

That would be more powerful if there was also some narrow product market 
to use it for.  Some virtual currencies like Tencent's Q coin have made 
headway with virtual goods.  It would be sweet if there was some way to 
horn in on a market like that as the official virtual currency gets 
clamped down on with limitations.  Not saying it can't work without 
something, but a ready specific transaction need that it fills would 
increase the certainty of success.

> At its simplest this exchange service could be a website where
> traders, who can be individual persons, can post their rates, and
> random users can leave trade requests. Some kind of an average rate
> estimate could be shown on the site. Small-scale trading by
> individuals would be outside legal hassle in most countries, and
> putting all the eggs in the same basket would be avoided.

Basically like an eBay site with user reviews to try to establish which 
sellers can be trusted.  The escrow feature will help but not solve 
everything.  It would be far more work to set up such a site than just 
to set up a single exchange site of your own, and there won't be enough 
users to make it go until later.  I'm thinking it wouldn't make sense to 
make an eBay type site until later.

> Another idea, which could be additional to the previous one, would be
> an automated exchange service. The service would automatically
> calculate the exchange rate and perform the transactions. This would
> be nicer to the user: completion of the transaction request would be
> certain and instantaneous. Making this service might actually be quite
> easy if there was a command line interface to Bitcoin: just take any
> web application framework and use PayPal back-end integration to
> automatically send euros when Bitcoins are received, and vice versa.
> This kind of business would also work great on larger scale if you set
> up a company and take care of all the bureaucracy needed to practice
> currency exchange. (I actually have a registered company that I've
> used for billing of some IT work, I could use that as a base.)

Even if you had automation, you'd probably want to review orders 
manually before processing them anyway.  It wouldn't be hard to process 
orders by hand, especially at first.  You could always set a minimum 
order size to keep orders more infrequent.

> This exchange business thing is something that I'd be interested in
> doing, and I also have the sufficient technical skills to do it.
> Although, before this can be done, there should be a non-alpha version
> of Bitcoin (and the command line interface / API).
> 
> If this gets started, donors / high-risk investors would be very
> welcome to bring capital for the currency's backup.
> 
> So, what do you think about the idea? Note that this is not something
> that I'm asking you to do (unless you want to) if you're busy with
> other things. I can do it myself, if I get positive reviews about the
> plan.

That's great, I could probably get a donor to send currency to you which 
you convert to euros and pay out through methods that are convenient for 
users.  I don't want to do an exchange business myself, but it can be 
done independently of me.  Like you say, there is more software 
development to be done first, and also I'd like to keep trying for a 
while to think of a bootstrap application to use bitcoins for.  I've had 
some ideas that could only be done before an exchange exists.

BTW, I tried to buy bitcoin.com before I started but there was no 
chance, it's owned by a professional domain speculator.  It's normal for 
open source projects to have .org so it's not so bad.

*Source: Published by Martti Malmi on GitHub in February 2024 as part of his testimony in the COPA v. Wright trial. The full correspondence archive is available at mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/.*
