---
title: "Re: Setup, Autorun, v0.1.6"
date: 2009-10-21T17:58:49Z
source: correspondence
sourceUrl: "https://mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/"
author: "Satoshi Nakamoto"
participants:
  - name: "Satoshi Nakamoto"
    slug: "satoshi-nakamoto"
  - name: "Martti Malmi"
    slug: "martti-malmi"
description: "Yeah, I put back your startup folder shortcut code and it started fine"
isSatoshi: true
threadId: "satoshi-martti-malmi"
threadTitle: "Satoshi \u2194 Martti Malmi Correspondence"
threadPosition: 40
tags:
  - "correspondence"
  - "early-contributor"
secondarySources:
  - name: "Martti Malmi's Published Email Archive"
    url: "https://mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/"
  - name: "COPA v. Wright Trial Exhibits"
    url: "https://www.opencrypto.org/2024-02-22-witnesses-satoshi-correspondence/"
---

Yeah, I put back your startup folder shortcut code and it started fine 
for me too on XP and Vista.  For good measure, I changed it to make the 
shortcut settings look identical to one I manually created.  I set the 
working directory to where the EXE is since that's where debug.log is 
created, otherwise windows puts it in some weird directory.  I didn't 
change the setup script yet.

I checked everything in to SVN (thanks for setting that up)
- multi-proc generate
- flush wallet.dat after every change so the DB doesn't leave that stuff 
in the transaction logs
- view menu checkbox to hide all generated coins so you can see just 
your payment transactions
- disabled transaction fee option
- made the minimize to tray options similar to Firefox's MinimizeToTray
- bunch of other misc changes since the 0.1.5 release

I made it not show non-accepted generated coins.  It won't show 
generated coins until they have at least one confirmation (one block 
linked after it), so usually they'll just never be seen.  Occasionally a 
generated coin that was displayed might disappear because it became not 
accepted later.  I don't think anyone would notice the occasional 
non-accepteds if we didn't point them out in the UI.  People have told 
me they find it annoying to have to look at them, as they're permanently 
displayed in the transaction record.

I still have more testing to do.  I guess we gotta test Windows 7 now.

mmalmi@cc.hut.fi wrote:
>> It's possible Bitcoin ran and bailed out because something was wrong.
>> debug.log should tell something if that was the case.  What OS are you
>> using?  I wonder if we need Admin privilege and don't realize it.
>> Stuff that requires Admin can't start on startup on Vista.
> 
> I'm using XP. I recompiled the older revision and this time the startup 
> shortcut works. It also works when testing on Vista (non-admin). Maybe I 
> just missed something the previous time.
> 
>> Program shortcuts have multiple tabs of settings with lots of little
>> details.  I'll try the startup folder code and see if I can reproduce
>> the problem.  Every other systray icon on my computer is in the startup
>> folder, and it makes it easy for users to manage all their autoruns in
>> one place.  The things in the registry key tend to be devious hidden
>> bloatware.
> 
> Here it's the other way around, I have all my startup programs in the 
> registry. But maybe the shortcut method is nicer for the user, if it 
> works just as well
>

*Source: Published by Martti Malmi on GitHub in February 2024 as part of his testimony in the COPA v. Wright trial. The full correspondence archive is available at mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/.*
