---
title: "Re: Bitcoin"
date: 2009-06-12T09:22:34Z
source: correspondence
sourceUrl: "https://mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/"
author: "Martti Malmi"
participants:
  - name: "Satoshi Nakamoto"
    slug: "satoshi-nakamoto"
  - name: "Martti Malmi"
    slug: "martti-malmi"
description: "I made the changes. You could also register to the site or use the"
isSatoshi: false
threadId: "satoshi-martti-malmi"
threadTitle: "Satoshi \u2194 Martti Malmi Correspondence"
threadPosition: 20
tags:
  - "correspondence"
  - "early-contributor"
secondarySources:
  - name: "Martti Malmi's Published Email Archive"
    url: "https://mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/"
  - name: "COPA v. Wright Trial Exhibits"
    url: "https://www.opencrypto.org/2024-02-22-witnesses-satoshi-correspondence/"
---

> There are a lot of things you can say on the sourceforge site that I
> can't say on my own site.  Even so, I'm uncomfortable with explicitly
> saying "consider it an investment".  That's a dangerous thing to say
> and you should delete that bullet point.  It's OK if they come to that
> conclusion on their own, but we can't pitch it as that.
>
> A few details: the FAQ says "see section 2.3", but the sections aren't
> numbered.  Also, could you delete the last sentence on the FAQ "They
> are planned to be hidden in v0.1.6, since they're just confusing and
> annoying and there's no reason for users to have to see them." --
> that's not really something I meant to say publicly.

I made the changes. You could also register to the site or use the  
admin account to make necessary changes yourself, since the pages are  
located in the wiki.

> Someone came up with the word "cryptocurrency"... maybe it's a word we
> should use when describing Bitcoin, do you like it?

It sounds good. "The P2P Cryptocurrency" could be considered as the  
slogan, even if it's a bit more difficult to say than "The Digital P2P  
Cash". It still describes the system better and sounds more  
interesting, I think.

I could notify the mailing list about the new site and invite them to  
write on the forums and to the wiki.

*Source: Published by Martti Malmi on GitHub in February 2024 as part of his testimony in the COPA v. Wright trial. The full correspondence archive is available at mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/.*
