---
title: "Re: Forum"
date: 2009-11-07T10:13:45Z
source: correspondence
sourceUrl: "https://mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/"
author: "Martti Malmi"
participants:
  - name: "Satoshi Nakamoto"
    slug: "satoshi-nakamoto"
  - name: "Martti Malmi"
    slug: "martti-malmi"
description: "The people who are interested in being stealthy tend to be more"
isSatoshi: false
threadId: "satoshi-martti-malmi"
threadTitle: "Satoshi \u2194 Martti Malmi Correspondence"
threadPosition: 61
tags:
  - "correspondence"
  - "early-contributor"
  - "forum"
secondarySources:
  - name: "Martti Malmi's Published Email Archive"
    url: "https://mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/"
  - name: "COPA v. Wright Trial Exhibits"
    url: "https://www.opencrypto.org/2024-02-22-witnesses-satoshi-correspondence/"
---

> Do you think anonymous people are looking to be completely stealth, as
> in never connect once without TOR so nobody knows they use bitcoin, or
> just want to switch to TOR before doing any transactions?  It's just if
> you want to be completely stealth that you'd have to go through the
> -proxy -addnode manual seeding.  It would be very easy to fumble that
> up; if you run bitcoin normally to begin with it immediately
> automatically starts connecting.

The people who are interested in being stealthy tend to be more  
technically able, and they probably don't have a problem following the  
instructions to get perfect secrecy. Of course there could be a  
connect-button in the UI that needs to be clicked before use, but the  
tradeoff is that the UI becomes less straightforward for the average  
user.

> It would be a big plus if it could support SSL, at least for the login
> page if not sitewide.  Multiple people on the forum have expressed
> interest in TOR/I2P, and those users need SSL because a lot of TOR exit
> nodes are probably password scrapers run by identity thieves.  A lot of
> the core interest in Bitcoin is going to be from the privacy crowd.
>
> Any ideas where we can get a free forum?  Maybe we should look at where
> some other projects have their forums hosted for ideas where to look.

One option would be ning.com. Ning.com is a popular community site and  
many users who already have an account wouldn't need to register a new  
account. Example: http://p2pfoundation.ning.com/. This seems to  
support SSL.

Another option would be to relocate the whole site to some place where  
we can run Drupal or TikiWiki. I've been thinking of buying virtual  
server or web hosting for the exchange service sometime soon, and if  
the platform allows for two separate accounts, we could run the site  
there too. The CMS and its database can be always copied and relocated  
to a new web host if needed.

*Source: Published by Martti Malmi on GitHub in February 2024 as part of his testimony in the COPA v. Wright trial. The full correspondence archive is available at mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/.*
