---
title: "Re: Linux update"
date: 2009-11-15T20:05:50Z
source: correspondence
sourceUrl: "https://mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/"
author: "Martti Malmi"
participants:
  - name: "Satoshi Nakamoto"
    slug: "satoshi-nakamoto"
  - name: "Martti Malmi"
    slug: "martti-malmi"
description: "Perhaps the real name is better."
isSatoshi: false
threadId: "satoshi-martti-malmi"
threadTitle: "Satoshi \u2194 Martti Malmi Correspondence"
threadPosition: 84
tags:
  - "correspondence"
  - "early-contributor"
  - "linux"
secondarySources:
  - name: "Martti Malmi's Published Email Archive"
    url: "https://mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/"
  - name: "COPA v. Wright Trial Exhibits"
    url: "https://www.opencrypto.org/2024-02-22-witnesses-satoshi-correspondence/"
---

Perhaps the real name is better.

Another name question: I've been thinking of a name for the exchange  
service, and I came up with Bitcoin X (bitcoinx.com) and Bitcoin Shop  
(bitcoinshop.com). Which one do you find better?

> I'd better install 64-bit then.  I imagine it's something about the
> 32-bit version of Berkeley DB on 64-bit Linux.
>
> BTW, in things like the feature list credits, do you want me to refer
> to you as sirius-m or Martti Malmi?  I think most projects go by real
> names for consistency.
>
> mmalmi@cc.hut.fi wrote:
>> The program terminated a few times with the same error in debug.log  
>>  from Db::close. Db.log has:
>>
>> close: Bad file descriptor
>> blkindex.dat: Bad file descriptor
>>
>> I'm running a 64-bit Ubuntu distribution.
>>
>>> The only problem now is the DB exceptions he's getting.
>>> ************************
>>> EXCEPTION: 11DbException
>>> Db::open: Bad file descriptor
>>> bitcoin in ThreadMessageHandler()
>>> ************************
>>> EXCEPTION: 11DbException
>>> Db::close: Bad file descriptor
>>> bitcoin in ThreadMessageHandler()
>>>
>>> I had expected those to be a Wine problem, but he's getting them on
>>> Linux just the same.  He tried moving the datadir to a different drive,
>>> no help.  I've never gotten them.  I'm running a stress test that
>>> continuously generates a lot of activity and DB access and never got it.
>>>
>>> He has Ubuntu 64-bit and I have 32-bit, so I'm assuming that's the
>>> difference.  Is your Linux machine 64-bit or 32-bit?  Have you ever had
>>> a DB exception? (see db.log also)  Now that the zombie problem is fixed
>>> in test5, could you start running it on your Linux machine?  We could
>>> use a 3rd vote to get a better idea of what we're dealing with here.
>>> The DB exception is uncaught, so it'll stop the program if you get it.
>>>
>>> BTW, zetaboards insists on displaying "Member #", so you better sign up
>>> soon and grab a good account number.
>>

*Source: Published by Martti Malmi on GitHub in February 2024 as part of his testimony in the COPA v. Wright trial. The full correspondence archive is available at mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/.*
