---
title: "Re: Bitcoin"
date: 2009-05-03T05:08:36Z
type: "correspondence"
source: "malmi-email-archive"
sourceUrl: "https://mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/"
sourceNote: "Published on GitHub in February 2024 as part of Martti Malmi's testimony in the COPA v. Wright trial"
author: "Martti Malmi"
participants:
  - name: "Satoshi Nakamoto"
    slug: "satoshi-nakamoto"
  - name: "Martti Malmi"
    slug: "martti-malmi"
description: "Malmi agrees to develop the website and FAQ, proposes a UI tool for password-protected private keys, and reports running a Bitcoin node 24/7."
isSatoshi: false
tags:
  - "correspondence"
  - "early-contributor"
secondarySources:
  - name: "COPA v. Wright Trial Exhibits"
    url: "https://www.opencrypto.org/2024-02-22-witnesses-satoshi-correspondence/"
---

All right, I can do the website and the FAQ. I'll start writing the  
FAQ now with the questions that I can think of.

I have a feature suggestion for the program: a UI tool for creating  
password protected private keys and saving them into a custom  
location. Backups of the key will be needed to be safe from losing the  
control of your coins, and for using the coins on more than one  
computers. Password protection would be needed to make using your  
money more difficult for someone who happens to find your key file.

Maybe a bug/feature tracker could be set up at the Sourceforge project page?

I'm running a bitcoin node always when my PC is powered on, which  
means about 24/7. Bitcoin is a great project, and it's really cool to  
participate!

-Martti Malmi


Quoting Satoshi Nakamoto <satoshin@gmx.com>:

> Thanks for starting that topic on ASC, your understanding of bitcoin is
> spot on.  Some of their responses were rather Neanderthal, although I
> guess they're so used to being anti-fiat-money that anything short of
> gold isn't good enough.  They concede that something is flammable, but
> argue that it'll never burn because there'll never be a spark.  Once
> it's backed with cash, that might change, but I'd probably better
> refrain from mentioning that in public anymore until we're closer to
> ready to start.  I think we'll get flooded with newbies and we need to
> get ready first.
>
> What we need most right now is website writing.  My writing is not that
> great, I'm a much better coder.  Maybe you could create the website on
> sourceforge, which is currently blank.  If you can write a FAQ, I can
> give you a compilation of my replies to questions in e-mail and forums
> for facts and details and ideas.
>
> Codewise, there's not much that's easy right now.  One thing that's
> needed is an interface for server side scripting languages such as
> Java, Python, PHP, ASP, etc.  Bitcoin would be running on the web
> server, and server side script could call it to do transactions.  It's
> Windows, so I guess OLE/COM is the interface.
>
> One easy thing that really helps is to run a node that can accept
