---
title: "Re: Bitcoin.org"
date: 2009-12-03T07:46:50Z
source: correspondence
sourceUrl: "https://mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/"
author: "Martti Malmi"
participants:
  - name: "Satoshi Nakamoto"
    slug: "satoshi-nakamoto"
  - name: "Martti Malmi"
    slug: "martti-malmi"
description: "Firefox on XP doesn't, and IE also doesn't produce as good quality as"
isSatoshi: false
threadId: "satoshi-martti-malmi"
threadTitle: "Satoshi \u2194 Martti Malmi Correspondence"
threadPosition: 120
tags:
  - "correspondence"
  - "early-contributor"
  - "bitcoin-org"
secondarySources:
  - name: "Martti Malmi's Published Email Archive"
    url: "https://mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/"
  - name: "COPA v. Wright Trial Exhibits"
    url: "https://www.opencrypto.org/2024-02-22-witnesses-satoshi-correspondence/"
---

> What Windows version/browser doesn't font anti-aliasing work on?  IE 6
> on XP anti-aliases, and versions below that have less than 1% market
> share.

Firefox on XP doesn't, and IE also doesn't produce as good quality as  
I have on Linux. Screenshots from browsershots.org attached.

> There's a transaction fee of 0.01 per KB after the first 1KB for
> oversized transactions.  The first 1KB is free, small transactions are
> typically 250 bytes.  Doubleclick on the transaction.  Think of it like
> postage by weight.

Is there no transaction fee then, if you send the same amount in  
multiple small packages?

> The solution is an extra dialog when sending, something like "This is
> an oversized transaction and requires a transaction fee of 0.20bc.  Is
> this OK?"  (is that text good enough or any improvements?)  I have the
> code already, I'll put it in.

Sounds fine.

> Then we wouldn't have to explain the 10,000.20bc transaction, but may
> still have to explain who the transaction fee goes to.

Where should it go btw? Here it went to the receiver along with all  
the other coins. Transaction screenshot attached.

> mmalmi@cc.hut.fi wrote:
>> The text logo looks quite good actually, except on Windows when the  
>>  font antialiasing doesn't work. I turned it into a png.
>>
>> I just made a 10,000bc transaction from one account to another, but  
>>  it ended up sending 10,000.20bc. Any idea why that could be?
>>
>>> Thanks, I haven't settled on a theme yet.  My first experiment was to
>>> try something besides yet another blue site.  Another line of thought
>>> is that it should be like a bank website, stately, professional and
>>> official looking to support confidence in financial matters.
>>>
>>> The logo's a little too Disco/web-1990's.  I still like your bitweaver
>>> one better, I recreated it with text as a placeholder for now.  When
>>> the theme is more settled, I'll think about a matching logo.
>>>
>>> Good idea about the Sourceforge tag, we can use all the graphics   
>>> we can get.
>>>
>>> I have more to do before we go live, and we need to give the search
>>> engines more time.
>>>
>>> mmalmi@cc.hut.fi wrote:
>>>> I autogenerated the new logo at http://cooltext.com/, it's a good  
>>>>   quick solution. You can try a wide variety of different logo   
>>>> styles  there if you have the patience for the slow user interface.
>>>>
>>>>> It would be also great if you can get the Sourceforge logo from the SF
>>>>> project admin and add it to the site footer.
>>>>>
>>>>>> The current site layout looks nice and simple. The logo just should be
>>>>>> changed. If we want to go live quickly, we can just replace it with the
>>>>>> site title and make a better logo later.
>>>>>>
>>>>>> If we need help with site administration or contacts to professional
>>>>>> web graphic artists, we can ask Dave. He does Drupal stuff for work.
>>>>
>>>>
>>>>
>>
>>
>>

*Source: Published by Martti Malmi on GitHub in February 2024 as part of his testimony in the COPA v. Wright trial. The full correspondence archive is available at mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/.*
