---
title: "Re: Linux build"
date: 2009-11-04T05:38:17Z
source: correspondence
sourceUrl: "https://mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/"
author: "Satoshi Nakamoto"
participants:
  - name: "Satoshi Nakamoto"
    slug: "satoshi-nakamoto"
  - name: "Martti Malmi"
    slug: "martti-malmi"
description: "It was almost there.  I fixed a few things and got it to finish"
isSatoshi: true
threadId: "satoshi-martti-malmi"
threadTitle: "Satoshi \u2194 Martti Malmi Correspondence"
threadPosition: 54
tags:
  - "correspondence"
  - "early-contributor"
  - "linux"
  - "development"
secondarySources:
  - name: "Martti Malmi's Published Email Archive"
    url: "https://mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/"
  - name: "COPA v. Wright Trial Exhibits"
    url: "https://www.opencrypto.org/2024-02-22-witnesses-satoshi-correspondence/"
---

It was almost there.  I fixed a few things and got it to finish 
compiling but I don't know the system libraries to link to so there's 
undefined references galore.

I changed the makefile to look for things under /usr/local and in their 
default "make install" locations.  I wrote what I did and switches I 
used in build-unix.txt.  I'm currently using wxWidgets 2.8.9 for now 
because it's the same version as on Windows and I don't want to wonder 
if there's version change issues at the same time as platform change. 
2.8.10 or 2.9.0 are probably fine though.  I went with the 
single-library compile of wxWidgets since we're linking to almost every 
library anyway.

I added xpm files, which is what they use everywhere else but Windows 
instead of RC files.  They're clever C files that define graphics in 
static arrays.  The bitcoin icon has 5 different versions but I couldn't 
figure out how that works in xpm so I only put the biggest one.  Maybe 
on GTK it scales it for you.  I don't know if these are right or what, 
but they compile.

mmalmi@cc.hut.fi wrote:
> I uploaded what I've ported so far to the svn/branches. Util, script, db 
> and the headers compile fully now and net.cpp partially, so there's 
> still work to do.
> 
> _beginthread doesn't have a direct Linux equivalent, so I used Boost 
> threads instead.
>

*Source: Published by Martti Malmi on GitHub in February 2024 as part of his testimony in the COPA v. Wright trial. The full correspondence archive is available at mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/.*
