---
title: "Re: Bitcoin"
date: 2009-06-07T05:34:29Z
source: correspondence
sourceUrl: "https://mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/"
author: "Martti Malmi"
participants:
  - name: "Satoshi Nakamoto"
    slug: "satoshi-nakamoto"
  - name: "Martti Malmi"
    slug: "martti-malmi"
description: "The user group privileges seemingly can't be changed without changing"
isSatoshi: false
threadId: "satoshi-martti-malmi"
threadTitle: "Satoshi \u2194 Martti Malmi Correspondence"
threadPosition: 16
tags:
  - "correspondence"
  - "early-contributor"
secondarySources:
  - name: "Martti Malmi's Published Email Archive"
    url: "https://mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/"
  - name: "COPA v. Wright Trial Exhibits"
    url: "https://www.opencrypto.org/2024-02-22-witnesses-satoshi-correspondence/"
---

> I like your idea of at least moving the FAQ into the wiki.  I've seen
> other projects that use the wiki for the FAQ or even the whole site.
> If you can figure out how to make it so regular users can edit things,
> then anyone who wants to can help.

The user group privileges seemingly can't be changed without changing  
the wiki source files, which can only be done by the SF admins as a  
hosted app is concerned. The hosted apps are also otherwise quite  
inflexible: you can only login with a SF account, you can't change  
themes by yourself and of course there's the ad-bar above the pages.

I think that replacing the current Wordpress installation at  
bitcoin.sourceforge.net with TikiWiki could be a great solution.  
TikiWiki supports CMS features, forums, wikis, bug trackers, and many  
other features also if needed. Perhaps the best looking example of a  
TikiWiki installation is at http://support.mozilla.com/.

I'll take backup of the current site and see if TikiWiki can be  
installed at SF. If it doesn't work, I'll see how wiki/forum features  
can be integrated with Wordpress or think of something else.

*Source: Published by Martti Malmi on GitHub in February 2024 as part of his testimony in the COPA v. Wright trial. The full correspondence archive is available at mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/.*
