---
title: "Re: Bitcoin"
date: 2009-07-21T03:14:43Z
source: correspondence
sourceUrl: "https://mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/"
author: "Satoshi Nakamoto"
participants:
  - name: "Satoshi Nakamoto"
    slug: "satoshi-nakamoto"
  - name: "Martti Malmi"
    slug: "martti-malmi"
description: "I know this sounds really retarded, but I still haven't been able to get"
isSatoshi: true
threadId: "satoshi-martti-malmi"
threadTitle: "Satoshi \u2194 Martti Malmi Correspondence"
threadPosition: 24
tags:
  - "correspondence"
  - "early-contributor"
secondarySources:
  - name: "Martti Malmi's Published Email Archive"
    url: "https://mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/"
  - name: "COPA v. Wright Trial Exhibits"
    url: "https://www.opencrypto.org/2024-02-22-witnesses-satoshi-correspondence/"
---

I know this sounds really retarded, but I still haven't been able to get 
the sourceforge login page to load, so I haven't been able to read it 
either.  https://sourceforge.net/account/login.php

Hal isn't currently actively involved.  He helped me a lot defending the 
design on the Cryptography list, and with initial testing when it was 
first released.  He carried this torch years ago with his Reusable Proof 
Of Work (RPOW).

I'm not going to be much help right now either, pretty busy with work, 
and need a break from it after 18 months development.

It would help if there was something for people to use it for.  We need 
an application to bootstrap it.  Any ideas?

There are donors I can tap if we come up with something that needs 
funding, but they want to be anonymous, which makes it hard to actually 
do anything with it.

mmalmi@cc.hut.fi wrote:
> Hi,
> 
> I made a post on the Bitcoin developer's forum at SF about a month ago 
> and sent you, David and Hal a notification about it to your 
> users.sourceforge.net emails. A few days ago I wondered why no one had 
> replied, and tried if the SF mail aliases even work - and they didn't, 
> at least in the case of my account. So could you please forward this 
> message to the others?
> 
> Best regards,
> sirius-m
>

*Source: Published by Martti Malmi on GitHub in February 2024 as part of his testimony in the COPA v. Wright trial. The full correspondence archive is available at mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/.*
