---
title: "Re: Bitcoin.org"
date: 2009-12-02T14:26:42Z
source: correspondence
sourceUrl: "https://mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/"
author: "Martti Malmi"
participants:
  - name: "Satoshi Nakamoto"
    slug: "satoshi-nakamoto"
  - name: "Martti Malmi"
    slug: "martti-malmi"
description: "The text logo looks quite good actually, except on Windows when the"
isSatoshi: false
threadId: "satoshi-martti-malmi"
threadTitle: "Satoshi \u2194 Martti Malmi Correspondence"
threadPosition: 118
tags:
  - "correspondence"
  - "early-contributor"
  - "bitcoin-org"
secondarySources:
  - name: "Martti Malmi's Published Email Archive"
    url: "https://mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/"
  - name: "COPA v. Wright Trial Exhibits"
    url: "https://www.opencrypto.org/2024-02-22-witnesses-satoshi-correspondence/"
---

The text logo looks quite good actually, except on Windows when the  
font antialiasing doesn't work. I turned it into a png.

I just made a 10,000bc transaction from one account to another, but it  
ended up sending 10,000.20bc. Any idea why that could be?

> Thanks, I haven't settled on a theme yet.  My first experiment was to
> try something besides yet another blue site.  Another line of thought
> is that it should be like a bank website, stately, professional and
> official looking to support confidence in financial matters.
>
> The logo's a little too Disco/web-1990's.  I still like your bitweaver
> one better, I recreated it with text as a placeholder for now.  When
> the theme is more settled, I'll think about a matching logo.
>
> Good idea about the Sourceforge tag, we can use all the graphics we can get.
>
> I have more to do before we go live, and we need to give the search
> engines more time.
>
> mmalmi@cc.hut.fi wrote:
>> I autogenerated the new logo at http://cooltext.com/, it's a good   
>> quick solution. You can try a wide variety of different logo styles  
>>  there if you have the patience for the slow user interface.
>>
>>> It would be also great if you can get the Sourceforge logo from the SF
>>> project admin and add it to the site footer.
>>>
>>>> The current site layout looks nice and simple. The logo just should be
>>>> changed. If we want to go live quickly, we can just replace it with the
>>>> site title and make a better logo later.
>>>>
>>>> If we need help with site administration or contacts to professional
>>>> web graphic artists, we can ask Dave. He does Drupal stuff for work.
>>
>>
>>

*Source: Published by Martti Malmi on GitHub in February 2024 as part of his testimony in the COPA v. Wright trial. The full correspondence archive is available at mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/.*
