---
title: "Re: Bitcoin.org"
date: 2009-12-04T04:24:41Z
source: correspondence
sourceUrl: "https://mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/"
author: "Satoshi Nakamoto"
participants:
  - name: "Satoshi Nakamoto"
    slug: "satoshi-nakamoto"
  - name: "Martti Malmi"
    slug: "martti-malmi"
description: "mmalmi@cc.hut.fi wrote:"
isSatoshi: true
threadId: "satoshi-martti-malmi"
threadTitle: "Satoshi \u2194 Martti Malmi Correspondence"
threadPosition: 121
tags:
  - "correspondence"
  - "early-contributor"
  - "bitcoin-org"
secondarySources:
  - name: "Martti Malmi's Published Email Archive"
    url: "https://mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/"
  - name: "COPA v. Wright Trial Exhibits"
    url: "https://www.opencrypto.org/2024-02-22-witnesses-satoshi-correspondence/"
---

mmalmi@cc.hut.fi wrote:
>> What Windows version/browser doesn't font anti-aliasing work on?  IE 6
>> on XP anti-aliases, and versions below that have less than 1% market
>> share.
> 
> Firefox on XP doesn't, and IE also doesn't produce as good quality as I 
> have on Linux. Screenshots from browsershots.org attached.

That's strange, I've seen Firefox 3.5 on XP anti-alias large fonts. 
Well anyway, your way is safer.

I changed it back to text for now though so I can keep tweaking the 
colours.  Drupal puts the <span> tags and junk in the browser title but 
that's fine for testing.

I added some instruction text on the homepage below the screenshots.

> Is there no transaction fee then, if you send the same amount in 
> multiple small packages?

True.  I suppose the dialog could make it worse by giving people a 
chance to experiment with breaking it up.

I'm making some changes.  The largest free transaction will be 60KB, or 
about 27,000bc if made of 50bc inputs.  I hope that's high enough that 
the transaction fee should rarely ever come up.  v0.2 nodes will take 
free transactions until the block size is over 200K, with priority given 
to smaller transactions.

It's best if you don't talk about this transaction fee stuff in public. 
  It's there for flood control.  We don't want to give anyone any ideas.

> Where should it go btw? Here it went to the receiver along with all the 
> other coins. Transaction screenshot attached.

You found an infrequent bug in CreateTransaction.  It wrote the 
transaction for 10000.20 with a fee of 0.22.  If you look at the 
transaction on the sender's side, it'll be a debit 10000.42 with 
transaction fee 0.22.  The bug was that it had to make a rare third pass 
on calculating the fee, and incorrectly added the first pass' fee to the 
amount being sent.  Will fix.

*Source: Published by Martti Malmi on GitHub in February 2024 as part of his testimony in the COPA v. Wright trial. The full correspondence archive is available at mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/.*
