---
title: "Re: Forum"
date: 2009-11-08T16:48:27Z
source: correspondence
sourceUrl: "https://mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/"
author: "Martti Malmi"
participants:
  - name: "Satoshi Nakamoto"
    slug: "satoshi-nakamoto"
  - name: "Martti Malmi"
    slug: "martti-malmi"
description: "I made a ning.com site for testing: bitcoin.ning.com. At least it's"
isSatoshi: false
threadId: "satoshi-martti-malmi"
threadTitle: "Satoshi \u2194 Martti Malmi Correspondence"
threadPosition: 65
tags:
  - "correspondence"
  - "early-contributor"
  - "forum"
secondarySources:
  - name: "Martti Malmi's Published Email Archive"
    url: "https://mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/"
  - name: "COPA v. Wright Trial Exhibits"
    url: "https://www.opencrypto.org/2024-02-22-witnesses-satoshi-correspondence/"
---

I made a ning.com site for testing: bitcoin.ning.com. At least it's  
there to get Google hits, even if we didn't use it.

> Now that the forum on bitcoin.sourceforge.net is catching on, we really
> should look for somewhere that freehosts full blown forum software.
> The bitweaver forum feature is just too lightweight.  I assume the
> "Forum" tab on the homepage can link out to wherever the forum is
> hosted.
>
> I've seen projects that have major following just from forum talk and
> pie-in-the-sky planning without even having any code yet.  Having a lot
> of forum talk gives a project more presence on the net, more search
> hits, makes it look big, draws new users in, helps solve support
> questions, hashes out what features are most of wanted.
>
> It would be a big plus if it could support SSL, at least for the login
> page if not sitewide.  Multiple people on the forum have expressed
> interest in TOR/I2P, and those users need SSL because a lot of TOR exit
> nodes are probably password scrapers run by identity thieves.  A lot of
> the core interest in Bitcoin is going to be from the privacy crowd.
>
> Any ideas where we can get a free forum?  Maybe we should look at where
> some other projects have their forums hosted for ideas where to look.

*Source: Published by Martti Malmi on GitHub in February 2024 as part of his testimony in the COPA v. Wright trial. The full correspondence archive is available at mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/.*
