---
title: "Re: Bitcoin"
date: 2009-05-02T17:06:58Z
type: "correspondence"
source: "malmi-email-archive"
sourceUrl: "https://mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/"
sourceNote: "Published on GitHub in February 2024 as part of Martti Malmi's testimony in the COPA v. Wright trial"
author: "Satoshi Nakamoto"
participants:
  - name: "Satoshi Nakamoto"
    slug: "satoshi-nakamoto"
  - name: "Martti Malmi"
    slug: "martti-malmi"
description: "Satoshi's first reply to Martti Malmi, praising his understanding of Bitcoin as 'spot on' and asking him to help with website writing and a FAQ."
isSatoshi: true
tags:
  - "correspondence"
  - "early-contributor"
  - "first-contact"
secondarySources:
  - name: "COPA v. Wright Trial Exhibits"
    url: "https://www.opencrypto.org/2024-02-22-witnesses-satoshi-correspondence/"
quotes:
  - id: "q1"
    person: "Martti Malmi"
    personSlug: "martti-malmi"
    sourceEntryId: "correspondence/martti-malmi/2009-05-02-malmi-initial-contact"
---

Thanks for starting that topic on ASC, your understanding of bitcoin is 
spot on.  Some of their responses were rather Neanderthal, although I 
guess they're so used to being anti-fiat-money that anything short of 
gold isn't good enough.  They concede that something is flammable, but 
argue that it'll never burn because there'll never be a spark.  Once 
it's backed with cash, that might change, but I'd probably better 
refrain from mentioning that in public anymore until we're closer to 
ready to start.  I think we'll get flooded with newbies and we need to 
get ready first.

What we need most right now is website writing.  My writing is not that 
great, I'm a much better coder.  Maybe you could create the website on 
sourceforge, which is currently blank.  If you can write a FAQ, I can 
give you a compilation of my replies to questions in e-mail and forums 
for facts and details and ideas.

Codewise, there's not much that's easy right now.  One thing that's 
needed is an interface for server side scripting languages such as Java, 
Python, PHP, ASP, etc.  Bitcoin would be running on the web server, and 
server side script could call it to do transactions.  It's Windows, so I 
guess OLE/COM is the interface.

One easy thing that really helps is to run a node that can accept 
incoming connections (forward port 8333 on your firewall) to make sure 
that new users who try it out have someone to connect to.  If they run 
it and get no connections, they'll probably just give up.

Satoshi


<!-- speaker: Martti Malmi -->
<!-- quote: q1 -->
> Message body follows:
> 
> Hello,
> 
> I'm Trickstern from the anti-state.com forum, and I would 
> like to help with Bitcoin, if there's something I can do.
> 
> I have a good touch on Java and C languages from school 
> courses (I'm studying CS), but not so very much development 
> experience yet. I think I could learn the C++ tricks quite 
> easily on that basis. I could also do testing or 
> documentation.
> 
> Best regards,
> Martti Malmi
> 
> --
> This message has been sent to you, a registered SourceForge.net user,
> by another site user, through the SourceForge.net site.  This message
> has been delivered to your SourceForge.net mail alias.  You may reply
> to this message using the "Reply" feature of your email client, or
> using the messaging facility of SourceForge.net at:
> https://sourceforge.net/sendmessage.php?touser=2495503
> 
