---
title: "Re: Setup, Autorun, v0.1.6"
date: 2009-10-16T18:41:40Z
source: correspondence
sourceUrl: "https://mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/"
author: "Satoshi Nakamoto"
participants:
  - name: "Satoshi Nakamoto"
    slug: "satoshi-nakamoto"
  - name: "Martti Malmi"
    slug: "martti-malmi"
description: "Thanks for that.  I'm still merging in some changes I had that need to"
isSatoshi: true
threadId: "satoshi-martti-malmi"
threadTitle: "Satoshi \u2194 Martti Malmi Correspondence"
threadPosition: 35
tags:
  - "correspondence"
  - "early-contributor"
secondarySources:
  - name: "Martti Malmi's Published Email Archive"
    url: "https://mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/"
  - name: "COPA v. Wright Trial Exhibits"
    url: "https://www.opencrypto.org/2024-02-22-witnesses-satoshi-correspondence/"
---

Thanks for that.  I'm still merging in some changes I had that need to 
go in before any next release.  Some things based on questions and 
feedback I've received that'll reduce confusion.  I'll probably enable 
multi-proc generating support, and hopefully make it safe to just backup 
wallet.dat to backup your money.  It's good to be coding again!

I'm going to hide the transaction fee setting, which is completely not 
needed and only serves to confuse people.  It was only there for testing 
and demonstration of a technical detail that can only be needed in the 
far away future, if ever, but was necessary to implement at the 
beginning to make it possible later.

What was the problem with the shortcut in the startup folder?  If you 
could send me the code, I'd like to take another look and see if I can 
see what the problem was.  The first strcat in the registry code should 
be strcpy, otherwise it would fail intermittently.  If the same code was 
in the shortcut one, maybe that was the problem.

It's encouraging to see more people taking an interest such as that 
NewLibertyStandard site.  I like his approach to estimating the value 
based on electricity.  It's educational to see what explanations people 
adopt.  They may help discover a simplified way of understanding it that 
makes it more accessible to the masses.  Many complex concepts in the 
world have a simplistic explanation that satisfies 80% of people, and a 
complete explanation that satisfies the other 20% who see the flaws in 
the simplistic explanation.

mmalmi@cc.hut.fi wrote:
> I made a Windows installer for the latest version of Bitcoin, which 
> includes the autostart and minimize to tray features. The installer 
> makes a start menu shortcut and a startup registry entry. I first 
> implemented the autostart with a shortcut to the startup folder, but I 
> found out that it doesn't always work by default and ended up doing it 
> with a registry entry. The registry entry is removed by the uninstaller 
> and can be also disabled from the options menu, so I don't think it's 
> such a big menace to the user after all.
> 
> I made the installer with NSIS, and the nsi script can be found in the SVN.
> 
> Could you add the installer to the SF download page? Here's the file:
> http://bitcoin.sourceforge.net/uploads/Bitcoin_setup.exe
> 
> There are some new users registered to the bitcoin.sf.net site. One of 
> them just announced that he's trading Bitcoins for dollars. Here's his 
> site: http://newlibertystandard.wetpaint.com/. Making an exchange 
> service first seemed a bit premature for the time being, but on the 
> other hand it's good that people show interest towards the project, and 
> this might attract even more interested people (and hopefully more 
> developers). I just sent the guy an email.
>

*Source: Published by Martti Malmi on GitHub in February 2024 as part of his testimony in the COPA v. Wright trial. The full correspondence archive is available at mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/.*
