---
title: "Re: Linux build"
date: 2009-11-03T07:31:41Z
type: "correspondence"
source: "malmi-email-archive"
sourceUrl: "https://mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/"
author: "Martti Malmi"
participants:
  - name: "Satoshi Nakamoto"
    slug: "satoshi-nakamoto"
  - name: "Martti Malmi"
    slug: "martti-malmi"
description: "Malmi uploads partial Linux port to SVN with util, script, db, and headers compiling, reports using Boost threads as a replacement for _beginthread, and notes Tor proxy issues."
isSatoshi: false
tags:
  - "correspondence"
  - "early-contributor"
  - "linux"
  - "development"
secondarySources:
  - name: "COPA v. Wright Trial Exhibits"
    url: "https://www.opencrypto.org/2024-02-22-witnesses-satoshi-correspondence/"
quotes:
  - id: "q1"
    person: "mmalmi@cc.hut.fi"
    personSlug: "martti-malmi"
---

I uploaded what I've ported so far to the svn/branches. Util, script,  
db and the headers compile fully now and net.cpp partially, so there's  
still work to do.

_beginthread doesn't have a direct Linux equivalent, so I used Boost  
threads instead.

I couldn't get connected using the Tor SOCKS proxy. That might be  
because of the Freenode Tor policy which requires connecting to their  
hidden service: http://freenode.net/irc_servers.shtml#tor

> heapchk() is just a MSVCRT debugging thing that's not being used.  It
> can be a no-op on Linux.  OpenSSL automatically uses /dev/urandom to
> seed on Linux, so RandAddSeedPerfmon can also be a no-op.
>
> Don't let it connect to the network before we've tested it thoroughly
> off-net.  If you have two computers, unplug the internet and use
> "bitcoin -connect=<ip>" to connect to each other, one windows and one
> linux.  -connect will allow you to connect to non-routable addresses
> like 192.168.x.x.  We don't want to reflect badly on the reliability of
> the network if it throws off some malformed crud we hadn't thought to
> check for yet, or discovers something else anti-social to do on the
> network.
>
> I have time that I can do some testing when you've got something
> buildable to test.  I can include it in the stress test I'm currently
> running on the changes so far.
>
> <!-- quote: q1 -->
>> I made an #ifdef to replace QueryPerformanceCounter with Linux's   
>> gettimeofday in util.h. Some Unicode/ANSI errors were resolved   
>> without code changes when I updated to wxWidgets 2.9. The only   
>> compile error I'm getting in Linux at the moment is from heapchk()   
>> in util.h.
>>
>>> I fixed some non-portable stuff I came across:
>>> QueryPerformanceCounter
>>> %I64d in printf format strings
>>> Sleep
>>> CheckDiskSpace
>>>
>>> If there's any other unportable stuff you know of I should fix,   
>>> let me know.
>>>
>>> I think I'll move debug.log and db.log into the same directory as the
>>> data files (%appdata%\Bitcoin), rather than whatever the current
>>> directory happens to be.
>>
>>
>>
