---
title: "[Fwd: no activation mail]"
date: 2010-08-02T20:56:06Z
type: "correspondence"
source: "malmi-email-archive"
sourceUrl: "https://mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/"
author: "Satoshi Nakamoto"
participants:
  - name: "Satoshi Nakamoto"
    slug: "satoshi-nakamoto"
  - name: "Martti Malmi"
    slug: "martti-malmi"
description: "Satoshi forwards a user complaint about missing activation emails, expressing concern that the forum's spam block is now preventing verification emails from being delivered."
isSatoshi: true
threadId: "satoshi-martti-malmi"
threadPosition: 221
tags:
  - "correspondence"
  - "early-contributor"
secondarySources:
  - name: "Martti Malmi's Published Email Archive"
    url: "https://mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/"
  - name: "COPA v. Wright Trial Exhibits"
    url: "https://www.opencrypto.org/2024-02-22-witnesses-satoshi-correspondence/"
---

Oh great, now we're screwed.

We probably got spam blocked because we were allowing registrations 
without e-mail verification.  But now that we've enabled it, our 
verification e-mails are blocked.

There could still be some existing user accounts created before the 
registration requirement being used by spammers.

We're kind of in a jam here.  Can you make sure there's nothing else you 
can think of that might be acting as an open e-mail gateway or way for 
spammers to use our system for putting out spam?  Check the e-mail logs 
and see if there's been a lot of traffic and what it's from.  If you can 
figure out what the problem was and shut it down, then after you're sure 
it's fixed, request PBL to take us off the block list.

If there's a way to prohibit the forum from sending e-mail 
notifications, maybe we should do that.



-------- Original Message --------<br>
Subject: no activation mail<br>
Date: Mon, 02 Aug 2010 22:30:35 +0200<br>
From: Youri <youri.de.bruycker@telenet.be><br>
To: satoshin@gmx.com

Hey Satoshin,

I tried to register me at the bitcoinforum, but I didn't get an activation
mail.
Tried the resend activation code option a few times, changed the
mailadress from my telenet to my gmail and back, but no luck. Looked at my
spam folder but it's not there. So I guess something went wrong, could you
activate my account?

My username is Skull88.

Thanks in advance,
Youri

*Source: Published by Martti Malmi on GitHub in February 2024 as part of his testimony in the COPA v. Wright trial. The full correspondence archive is available at mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/.*
