---
title: "Re: Bitcoin API"
date: 2010-02-03T20:25:53Z
source: correspondence
sourceUrl: "https://mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/"
author: "Satoshi Nakamoto"
participants:
  - name: "Satoshi Nakamoto"
    slug: "satoshi-nakamoto"
  - name: "Martti Malmi"
    slug: "martti-malmi"
description: "Is there any way to find out what the missing shared libraries are?  It"
isSatoshi: true
threadId: "satoshi-martti-malmi"
threadTitle: "Satoshi \u2194 Martti Malmi Correspondence"
threadPosition: 143
tags:
  - "correspondence"
  - "early-contributor"
  - "api"
secondarySources:
  - name: "Martti Malmi's Published Email Archive"
    url: "https://mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/"
  - name: "COPA v. Wright Trial Exhibits"
    url: "https://www.opencrypto.org/2024-02-22-witnesses-satoshi-correspondence/"
---

Is there any way to find out what the missing shared libraries are?  It 
would help to know.

It probably needs the gtk libraries, in which case you'll have the same 
problem with the 64-bit version.  I would like to have a single 
executable that can also run on a UI-less system, but I'm not sure how 
on linux to link to things but still be able to run and not use them if 
the library is not present.  Maybe we should statically link the GTK. 
Licensewise, it's LGPL, but since it's only used on unix, that would be 
OK.  (we can't link LGPL stuff on windows because we provide the OpenSSL 
DLL, but on linux OpenSSL comes with the OS)

My 64-bit (debug stripped) executable is attached.  It includes untested 
changes that are not in SVN yet: UI changes and the wallet fSpent flag 
resync stuff.

I've been researching options for interprocess calling.  I want 
something that will be easy for a variety of server side languages to 
call, particularly PHP.  Cross-platform to windows is a plus.

I'm not sure if I want it to be something that can be accessed across 
the network.  That would introduce security issues.  If it can only be 
accessed on the local system, then local security authentication covers 
it, and it is incapable of being hacked remotely.

At surface level, not looking into any details yet, the current front 
runners are:
D-Bus:
    local system only
    used by qt, gnome and skype
    bindings: c, python, java, c++,
          php listed as "in progress"
          .net listed as unmaintained
          not sure how ready it is on windows
XML-RPC:
    widely used, built in libraries on PHP
    it's more for web clients to talk to server, transport is http, so 
its a security question

Is it possible to open a socket that can only be accessed locally?

mmalmi@cc.hut.fi wrote:
> Have you decided upon the inter-process calling method of the Bitcoin 
> API yet? An easy solution would be the socket interface provided by 
> wxWidgets: http://docs.wxwidgets.org/trunk/overview_ipc.html. The 
> Bitcoin program running a wxServer could be then accessed by calling the 
> bitcoin executable from the command line or by coding your own wxClient 
> app.
> 
> Another option would be to just use the plain BSD sockets.
> 
> Can you send me a 64-bit Linux binary of Bitcoin if you have one? I 
> tried compiling on the VPS, but it ran out of memory. Tried the 32-bit 
> version (with ia32-libs) also, but it didn't find the shared libraries.
>

*Source: Published by Martti Malmi on GitHub in February 2024 as part of his testimony in the COPA v. Wright trial. The full correspondence archive is available at mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/.*
