---
title: "Re: 0.3.0 released"
date: 2010-07-06T18:40:11Z
source: correspondence
sourceUrl: "https://mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/"
author: "Satoshi Nakamoto"
participants:
  - name: "Satoshi Nakamoto"
    slug: "satoshi-nakamoto"
  - name: "Martti Malmi"
    slug: "martti-malmi"
description: "Actually, \"tabs for sent and received transactions\" sounds really"
isSatoshi: true
threadId: "satoshi-martti-malmi"
threadTitle: "Satoshi \u2194 Martti Malmi Correspondence"
threadPosition: 199
tags:
  - "correspondence"
  - "early-contributor"
  - "release"
secondarySources:
  - name: "Martti Malmi's Published Email Archive"
    url: "https://mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/"
  - name: "COPA v. Wright Trial Exhibits"
    url: "https://www.opencrypto.org/2024-02-22-witnesses-satoshi-correspondence/"
---

Actually, "tabs for sent and received transactions" sounds really 
immature if it doesn't have that already.  "Transaction filter tabs" 
sounds better.

I'm still editing it a little more and then I'll e-mail it to 
bitcoin-list and send it to the cryptography list.

"Get it at http://www.bitcoin.org or read the forum to find out more."

Satoshi Nakamoto wrote:
> I uploaded 0.3.0 beta to sourceforge and updated the links on 
> bitcoin.org.  I still need to post the announcement message on the forum 
> and mailing list.  Here's what I've prepared:
> 
> Announcing version 0.3 of Bitcoin, the P2P cryptocurrency!  Bitcoin is a 
> digital currency using cryptography and a distributed network to replace 
> the need for a trusted central server.  Escape the arbitrary inflation 
> risk of centrally managed currencies!  Bitcoin's total circulation is 
> limited to 21 million coins.  The coins are gradually being released to 
> the networks nodes based on the CPU power they contribute.  You can get 
> a share of them just by installing the software and contributing your 
> idle CPU time.
> 
> What's new:
> - Command line and JSON-RPC control
> - Includes a daemon version without GUI
> - Tabs for sent and received transactions
> - 20% faster hashing
> - Hashmeter performance display
> - Mac OS X version (thanks to Laszlo)
> - German, Dutch and Italian translations (thanks to DataWraith, Xunie 
> and Joozero)
>

*Source: Published by Martti Malmi on GitHub in February 2024 as part of his testimony in the COPA v. Wright trial. The full correspondence archive is available at mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/.*
