---
title: "Re: [Fwd: Forum e-mail notifications and PBL blacklist and wiki registration]"
date: 2010-08-11T01:54:27Z
source: correspondence
sourceUrl: "https://mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/"
author: "Satoshi Nakamoto"
participants:
  - name: "Satoshi Nakamoto"
    slug: "satoshi-nakamoto"
  - name: "Martti Malmi"
    slug: "martti-malmi"
description: "Are PM notifications still disabled?  (All we really need is disable the"
isSatoshi: true
threadId: "satoshi-martti-malmi"
threadTitle: "Satoshi \u2194 Martti Malmi Correspondence"
threadPosition: 228
tags:
  - "correspondence"
  - "early-contributor"
  - "forum"
  - "wiki"
secondarySources:
  - name: "Martti Malmi's Published Email Archive"
    url: "https://mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/"
  - name: "COPA v. Wright Trial Exhibits"
    url: "https://www.opencrypto.org/2024-02-22-witnesses-satoshi-correspondence/"
---

Are PM notifications still disabled?  (All we really need is disable the 
forum's access to the mail server)

> Does it work correctly now? I had made some forum code changes to
> disable PM email notification, but just reverted most of them as
> unnecessary.

mmalmi@cc.hut.fi wrote:
> I sent a removal request to PBL.
> 
> The FAQ says: "The first thing to know is: THE PBL IS NOT A BLACKLIST. 
> You are not listed for spamming or for anything you have done. The PBL 
> is simply a list of all of the world's dynamic IP space, i.e: IP ranges 
> normally assigned to ISP broadband customers (DSL, DHCP, PPP, cable, 
> dialup). It is perfectly normal for dynamic IP addresses to be listed on 
> the PBL. In fact all dynamic IP addresses in the world should be on the 
> PBL. Even static IPs which do not send mail should be listed in the 
> PBL." So we didn't even need to allow spam to be on the list.
> 
>> Here's the info about PBL again.
>>
>>
>> -------- Original Message --------
>> Subject: Forum e-mail notifications and PBL blacklist and wiki 
>> registration
>> Date: Thu, 29 Jul 2010 03:18:56 +0100
>> From: Satoshi Nakamoto <satoshin@gmx.com>
>> To: Martti Malmi <mmalmi@cc.hut.fi>
>>
>> http://www.bitcoin.org/smf/index.php?topic=338.0
>>
>>> of e-mail blackhole list or at least the ISP that hosts the e-mail  
>>> server for registration is on one of those lists.
>>>
>>> "Looks like bitcoin.org is listed on the PBL."
>>> http://www.spamhaus.org/pbl/query/PBL340779
>>
>> I think our problem may be that we have forum notifications on, like
>> e-mail you when you receive a PM, but we don't have e-mail verification
>> of new accounts.  Can someone put someone else's e-mail address without
>> verifying it, then have stuff sent there?  We need to stop that right
>> away before it gets used for something bad.  Either disallow all
>> notification, or make sure e-mail addresses are verified.
>>
>> I'm more inclined to disallow notifications or anything where the forum
>> sends you e-mail.  I kinda like not requiring e-mail verification.  But
>> if that's the only way to make sure we don't send e-mails to un-verified
>> addresses, then we could do that.
>>
>> If we request to get off of PBL, we'd better make sure we've got the
>> problem secured first.
>>
>> I changed Registration->settings->registration of new members to "Member
>> Activation".  I assume that means it e-mail verifies.
>> "Member Activation
>> When this option is enabled any members registering to the forum will
>> have a activation link emailed to them which they must click before they
>> can become full members"
>>
>> I think that's the only way to make sure the forum can't be used to send
>> to other people's e-mail addresses and potentially use it to spam.
> 
> 
>

*Source: Published by Martti Malmi on GitHub in February 2024 as part of his testimony in the COPA v. Wright trial. The full correspondence archive is available at mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/.*
