---
title: "Re: SMF php code"
date: 2010-10-04T19:05:26Z
source: correspondence
sourceUrl: "https://mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/"
author: "Satoshi Nakamoto"
participants:
  - name: "Satoshi Nakamoto"
    slug: "satoshi-nakamoto"
  - name: "Martti Malmi"
    slug: "martti-malmi"
description: "I reuploaded the changes.  For future reference, the files in Sources"
isSatoshi: true
threadId: "satoshi-martti-malmi"
threadTitle: "Satoshi \u2194 Martti Malmi Correspondence"
threadPosition: 237
tags:
  - "correspondence"
  - "early-contributor"
  - "forum"
secondarySources:
  - name: "Martti Malmi's Published Email Archive"
    url: "https://mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/"
  - name: "COPA v. Wright Trial Exhibits"
    url: "https://www.opencrypto.org/2024-02-22-witnesses-satoshi-correspondence/"
---

I reuploaded the changes.  For future reference, the files in Sources 
with customisations are:
Register.php
PersonalMessage.php
ManageRegistration.php
Subs.php

Let me know whenever you do an upgrade so I can make sure all my changes 
survived.

Hopefully the 1.1.x line is mature and updates are infrequent.  We 
shouldn't upgrade to 2.0.  I made a ton of customisations that wouldn't 
be compatible, and I kind of prefer the look of 1.1 over 2.0 anyway.

The captcha url has mycode=4 added to it, and the register page has 
extra hidden mycode=2 through 5 images so any automated thing wouldn't 
know which one to pick.  Everything that uses captcha has to have that 
mycode=4 thing added.  Something in sending personal messages also uses 
captcha.

mmalmi@cc.hut.fi wrote:
> Sorry, I didn't notice your custom code when updating. Re-integration is 
> a good idea if it's not too much work. I've removed hundreds of spam 
> accounts by making a search for old accounts that have a webpage url and 
> 0 posts.
> 
>> I noticed my custom captcha stuff is gone.  I guess it got lost in an
>> upgrade?  What are we doing for captcha now?  If we only have default
>> captcha, we'd be getting flooded with spam accounts.  Do I need to
>> re-integrate the custom captcha stuff or do we have another solution
>> now?
> 
> 
>

*Source: Published by Martti Malmi on GitHub in February 2024 as part of his testimony in the COPA v. Wright trial. The full correspondence archive is available at mmalmi.github.io/satoshi/.*
