---
title: "Re: On IRC bootstrapping"
date: 2010-04-08T19:57:33.000Z
type: "forum-post"
source: "bitcointalk"
sourceUrl: "https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=84.msg876#msg876"
author: "Xunie"
participants:
  - name: "Xunie"
    slug: "xunie"
description: "Context post by Xunie in BitcoinTalk topic 84. after msg729."
isSatoshi: false
tags: []
---

We all talk about bootstrapping systems, how ever, my idea might be a bit better.

A user starts bitcoin on a host for the first time, and it will initially download a list of nodes that it will connect to.
(until, of course, we have a lot of static nodes we can hard code into bitcoin...)
Then, the client tries to connects to those IPs on that list it downloaded, or when it already has a list downloaded from the last time it started bitcoin, connect to those.
When we're connected, the client asks every node for a list of nodes they know and updates its node list.
Once a complete list is obtained, it is saved on the hard drive and a copy is kept in memory. (This is because we want to have a list of nodes without actually connect to that indexing server.)
And finally, the node is completely connected to the network.
When a new node connects (when it receives a "new node packet"), the list is both updated in memory and saved to the hard drive again.
To make updating the list with new nodes so bandwidth friendly as possible, I suggest that every node "echoes" the IP of a new node connecting to the network to all the nodes it knows...

Pros:
* Has bootstrapping in mind.
* Is distributed for clients that have a node list

Cons:
* Every new client needs to connect to a server to get a new node list until we're done with bootstrapping.

This, in my eyes, seems like the best solution to our bootstrapping problem...
PS: If we implement this, we might just wanna check if the "new node packet" we received contains bogus IPs, or IPs that resolve to .gov domains! Tongue
