---
title: "Re: For a website taking payments with bitcoins, better: IP or bitcoin addresses?"
date: 2010-05-29T11:56:28.000Z
type: "forum-post"
source: "bitcointalk"
sourceUrl: "https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=129.msg1289#msg1289"
author: "SirArthur"
participants:
  - name: "SirArthur"
    slug: "sirarthur"
description: "Context post by SirArthur in BitcoinTalk topic 129. after msg1131."
isSatoshi: false
tags: []
quotes:
  - id: "q1"
    person: "soultcer"
    date: "2010-05-14T19:58:57.000Z"
---

> Actually no, transfering coins via IP address isn't encrypted. When you transfer coins to an IP, the recipient creates a new address just for that transaction and tells you to transfer coins to that address. A malicious exit node could sniff all Bitcoin traffic and intercept those transactions easily.
> 
> So for everyone: DO NOT USE IP ADDRESSES AS DESTINATIONS, ALWAYS USE BITCOIN ADDRESSES.

That's not "for everyone", but for those up to buy or sell some stuff more... strange.
I believe the core aim of BC is to be an easy to carry non-centralized currency, anonimity is a surplus not a mandatory field. Otherwise we would rather call it TorPay.
So, unless the transaction is for the a new pedo movie, some crack shipment or some stuff alike, there's no reason to use Tor, and therefore no exit nodes and no proxies. In the end trimming your advice: If you're up to make a "non conventional" payment over Tor, use the destination's BC Address, if you're buying or selling something normal, use IP or BC address.  Wink

Then we've the eternal ballance: Usability x Security. Too much security = too few usability (the most secure computer in the planet is... anyone since it's switched off) and too much usability = too few security. Ballance is better than paranoia.  Wink
