---
title: "Re: URI-scheme for bitcoin"
date: 2010-05-02T02:15:51.000Z
type: "forum-post"
source: "bitcointalk"
sourceUrl: "https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=55.msg1041#msg1041"
author: "Karmicads"
participants:
  - name: "Karmicads"
    slug: "karmicads"
description: "Context post by Karmicads in BitcoinTalk topic 55. before msg1132."
isSatoshi: false
threadId: "bt-uri-scheme-for-bitcoin"
tags: []
translationStatus: pending
---

**This just in:...** 

It seems there is, as it just so happens, an existing protocol precisely for interacting with stored data files on freenet  Grin <YAY!> Grin

Sorry, I'm not assuming that we must agree on the freenet URI functionality I suggested, just that It is exciting that it can be so readily incorporated, even for experimental purposes. Simply addressing a preconfigured freenet server should do the trick, but perhaps even the existing code can be slightly modified to directly address freenet (without the implicit web server included in the proper freenet install), but by including this FCP code, in the browser add-on, just the addressing and communicating functionality may be incorporated without the overhead of a full blown freenet http server. I assume at this point, the freenet web server, is only needed by the client for browsing freenet, not to service a node. As Bitcoin already addresses a similar P2P network, how hard would it be to make the bitcoin server do freenet inquiries? Could such trickery be included in the JSON intreface?
 
From: http://new-wiki.freenetproject.org/FCPv2

So, it seems you can pull data out of and post data into freenet at will.
Veeeeery interesting indeed. 

Aside from that, in the course of looking for proxies or workarounds for freenet URI integration, I believe I solved an unrelated problem to do with my ISP blocking VoIP/SIP (as it's the local telco as well - and yes, I am changing providers very soon). I want VoIP, but my bastard anti-competitive ISP has crippled my modems firmware (which has an inbuilt 2 port analogue telephone adapter), and I hope this work around (Tor) gets past it (I'm not holding my breath) but  Link2VoIP, if you are reading this, I'm looking in your direction.  Wink
