---
title: "Re: Runaway CPU usage for 64bit BitCoin (Linux Client)"
date: 2010-07-14T18:52:54.000Z
type: "forum-post"
source: "bitcointalk"
sourceUrl: "https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=299.msg2910#msg2910"
author: "knightmb"
participants:
  - name: "knightmb"
    slug: "knightmb"
description: "Context post by knightmb in BitcoinTalk topic 299. before msg3008."
isSatoshi: false
threadId: "bt-runaway-cpu-usage-for-64bit-bitcoin-linux-client"
tags: []
translationStatus: pending
---

> [Quote from: satoshi on July 14, 2010, 06:45:53 PM](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=299.msg2908#msg2908)
> After it initially tries incorrectly to set itself to the lowest priority, the generate thread only changes its priority again temporarily when it finds a block.  When you've found a block, you should want it to hurry up and broadcast it as soon a possible before someone else finds one and makes yours invalid.  The generate thread only changes to higher priority for less than a second every few days.
> 
> There should be a 0.3.1 release for this soon.  There are a few other issues we need to look at fixing in 0.3.1 before making a release.
> 
> Quote from: knightmb on July 12, 2010, 10:39:13 PM

That's interesting.  I know the minimize to tray on Ubuntu is very clunky, but I didn't know it had a CPU peg problem too.  Anyone else able to reproduce this problem?  We had this feature disabled on Linux before, but then it seemed better to have the imperfect UI than to lose the feature entirely.  I'm thinking we should disable it again on Linux.
It only seems to happen if
A) you minimize to tray, later bring it back up, minimize again, bring it back up. It starts stacking tray icons out (but they are blank, but still labeled as BitCoin)
B) sometimes the program does it randomly

I'll turn it back on with mine to make a screen shot, doesn't take long for it to happen, hehe.
