---
title: "Re: RFC: ship block chain 1-74000 with release tarballs?"
date: 2010-11-28T16:09:46.000Z
type: "forum-post"
source: "bitcointalk"
sourceUrl: "https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1931.msg25122#msg25122"
author: "RHorning"
participants:
  - name: "RHorning"
    slug: "rhorning"
description: "Context post by RHorning in BitcoinTalk topic 1931. before msg25138."
isSatoshi: false
tags: []
quotes:
  - id: "q1"
    person: "jgarzik"
    personSlug: "jgarzik"
    date: "2010-11-28T01:02:22.000Z"
---

<!-- quote: q1 -->
> The client is clearly capable of verifying the cryptographic integrity of blk0001.dat from an untrusted source, because it does that for blocks coming in over the network, and blk0001.dat contains... serialized blocks originally received from untrusted sources over the network.
> 
> It does not seem overly difficult to pass in blk0001.dat file position data to ProcessBlock(), and simply skip the WriteToDisk() storage call in downstream callee AcceptBlock()

Unless I'm mistaken here, what this implies is that at the moment the "official" client presumes that blk0001.dat contains validated data, so if you download that data from another source which may have been compromised, at the moment there is no way to verify this information.  This is but a temporary danger to be aware of while the software attempts to cope with this particular issue.

On the other hand, somebody could also put into the UI or as a command-line switch on bitcoind some sort of "reverifications" of the block data which would be performed locally.  I think there are other applications for this including perhaps as a precaution against some virus on your computer manipulating data in the block chain where this would be useful anyway, but it seems like an option which ought to be added to the software.  Since the verification code is already in the software, it is merely setting up the algorithm and triggering mechanism to perform that verification.  Indeed if there is a particular block which is of concern during the verification process, an effort to "heal" the chain based upon block requests to peer nodes could be used to fix potential errors or even discard the whole chain.

I hope such a feature eventually is added.
