---
title: "Re: checkpointing the block chain"
date: 2010-08-16T17:33:14.000Z
type: "forum-post"
source: "bitcointalk"
sourceUrl: "https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=834.msg9778#msg9778"
author: "mkrogh"
participants:
  - name: "mkrogh"
    slug: "mkrogh"
description: "Context post by mkrogh in BitcoinTalk topic 834. before msg9816."
isSatoshi: false
tags: []
---

[Quote from: aceat64 on August 16, 2010, 04:14:11 PM](#msg9763)
> 1) The point of Bitcoin is to be a global currency, it doesn't make sense to use Bitcoin as a replacement for a national currency

You can say that, but it would be nice to use it on a smaller scale. It is interesting to think about how to achieve this without making the system too vulnerable. 
Checkpoints could be one possibility. Maybe there are others.

Of course time matters. But, you don't know how long the hidden part has been working. And if it has more power, it will eventually have done more work as well. But I agree, that for one giant global system, this might not be a big issue. 

How would people react if some governments declared that they didn't like the system, and would now start an independent chain to make all current coins worthless. That in itself might create a panic, and destroy the system. With more recent checkpoints, the system would be less speculative.

Let me turn it around. With a global bitxoin system, what is a good reason that nodes can not freeze all blocks older than say 10 hours of accumulated difficulty. Where is the downside? Is it really considered a desired feature that a part of the network can be hidden for many hours and come back again with a long chain? Or is it just that checkpoints 
haven't been implemented because the system is still so new?

Cheers.
