---
title: "Re: [PATCH] implement 'xlisttransactions'"
date: 2010-08-05T10:32:04.000Z
type: "forum-post"
source: "bitcointalk"
sourceUrl: "https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=611.msg7659#msg7659"
author: "knightmb"
participants:
  - name: "knightmb"
    slug: "knightmb"
description: "Context post by knightmb in BitcoinTalk topic 611. quotes Satoshi."
isSatoshi: false
tags: []
quotes:
  - id: "q1"
    person: "satoshi"
    personSlug: "satoshi-nakamoto"
    date: "2010-07-30T19:40:54.000Z"
    sourceEntryId: "forum/bitcointalk/topic-611/2010-07-30-re-implement-listtransactions"
---

<!-- quote: q1 -->
> What are you needing to use listtransactions for?
> 
> The reason I didn't implement listtransactions is I want to make sure web programmers don't use it.  It would be very easy to latch onto that for watching for received payments.  There is no reliable way to do it that way and make sure nothing can slip through the cracks.  Until we have solid example code using getreceivedbyaddress and getreceivedbylabel to point to and say "use this! use this! don't use listtransactions!", I don't think we should implement listtransactions.

I have to agree with Satoshi, other than the extra field of "credit/debit" how is this different than getreceivedbyaddress & getreceivedbylabel? Can someone explain it to me better?

My only beef with *all* those function calls is that direct IP to IP payments are never shown.  As it is right now, if I send a payment via IP to IP, I can't find it with those commands. I can see the balance is right, but I'm not sure where it came from because neither command will show me any info about the transaction. 

If listtransactions (or getreceivedbyaddress & getreceivedbylabel) could list IP to IP transactions, that would be useful.

**[edit]** I see it will show generated coin, so that is useful actually. Also, the current getreceivedbyaddress & getreceivedbylabel seem to be buggy in which transactions they show to begin with.
