---
title: "Re: auto backing up of wallet.dat"
date: 2010-08-26T01:21:57.000Z
type: "forum-post"
source: "bitcointalk"
sourceUrl: "https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=921.msg11232#msg11232"
author: "nelisky"
participants:
  - name: "nelisky"
    slug: "nelisky"
description: "Context post by nelisky in BitcoinTalk topic 921. quoted by msg11345."
isSatoshi: false
tags: []
quotes:
  - id: "q1"
    person: "satoshi"
    date: "2010-08-25T15:57:40.000Z"
  - id: "q2"
    person: "satoshi"
    date: "2010-08-25T15:57:40.000Z"
---

<!-- quote: q1 -->
> I started posting in the other topic but I'll repeat here, this thread seems more specific to the topic.
> 
> The main backup improvement will be a pre-generated pool of keys and a rescan at load to scrape missed transactions from the block history.  Then a backup will last forward for a long time.
> 
> I was starting to post the same idea you said nelisky.

Yes, I saw your other post and I really like the poll of addresses, but we still need a way to easily back up when those get all used, don't we? I know the address space is huge, but there might be applications that deliver thousands of addresses per day.

<!-- quote: q2 -->
> How about a json-rpc command that locks the wallet, flushes it, copies wallet.dat to a location you specified, then unlocks it?  That would be a smaller project than the pooled keys, so maybe it could be done first.
> 
> What's the simplest portable way to copy a file?  Is there something in Boost?
> 
> What should it be named?  maybe:
> backupwallet 

Great on all accounts, name and implementation approach. 

As for the file copy, why add to the boost dependency? I for one would love to get a core lib with very little deps. In C++ you can just use standard file streams, can't you? Something like http://www.dreamincode.net/code/snippet2306.htm (out of a quick google, didn't try but looks correct).

To put the cherry on top, why not add a trigger that makes the copy whenever there's a change to the wallet? Well, this would depend on file locking to work properly and that sucks on windows iirc. Been a while since I had to code there Smiley
