---
title: "Re: Bitcoin snack machine (fast transaction problem)"
date: 2011-03-19T01:43:21.000Z
type: "forum-post"
source: "bitcointalk"
sourceUrl: "https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=423.msg67684#msg67684"
author: "ffe"
participants:
  - name: "ffe"
    slug: "ffe"
description: "Context post by ffe in BitcoinTalk topic 423. quotes Satoshi."
isSatoshi: false
tags: []
quotes:
  - id: "q1"
    person: "satoshi"
    personSlug: "satoshi-nakamoto"
    date: "2010-07-17T22:29:13.000Z"
    sourceEntryId: "forum/bitcointalk/topic-423/2010-07-17-re-bitcoin-snack-machine-fast-transaction-problem"
---

<!-- quote: q1 -->
> I believe it'll be possible for a payment processing company to provide as a service the rapid distribution of transactions with good-enough checking in something like 10 seconds or less.
> 
> The network nodes only accept the first version of a transaction they receive to incorporate into the block they're trying to generate.  When you broadcast a transaction, if someone else broadcasts a double-spend at the same time, it's a race to propagate to the most nodes first.  If one has a slight head start, it'll geometrically spread through the network faster and get most of the nodes.
> 
> A rough back-of-the-envelope example:
> 1         0
> 4         1ter 
> 16        4
> 64        16
> 80%      20%
> 
> So if a double-spend has to wait even a second, it has a huge disadvantage.
> 
> The payment processor has connections with many nodes.  When it gets a transaction, it blasts it out, and at the same time monitors the network for double-spends.  If it receives a double-spend on any of its many listening nodes, then it alerts that the transaction is bad.  A double-spent transaction wouldn't get very far without one of the listeners hearing it.  The double-spender would have to wait until the listening phase is over, but by then, the payment processor's broadcast has reached most nodes, or is so far ahead in propagating that the double-spender has no hope of grabbing a significant percentage of the remaining nodes.

One more point I'd like to make is that the _only_ person who can double spend is the owner of the coin (since only he knows the private key). The only time clients see a double spend is if the owner is purposely being malicious. It is therefore reasonable to drop _both_ the original and the second transactions if a double spend is seen within a window of time. Further, the double spend "event" could be bundled (both original transactions included in the bundle as proof of the double spend) into a transaction that locks that coin out for a long time (remember, we have proof of malicious intent so we would be justified in locking out the coin for say 10,000 blocks or more).

After the window of time expires the second transaction is simply ignored. At this point we don't want to lock out the coin because we don't want to leave an opening for the original owner to cancel the original transaction. We would need the window to be large enough that we are very confident most clients have seen it yet short enough that the selling merchant can wait without burdening normal customers. 15 seconds for example. So, waiting 30 seconds without seeing the coin lockout transaction would assure the merchant no double spending happened.
