---
title: "Re: *** ALERT *** Upgrade to 0.3.6"
date: 2010-07-30T01:25:48.000Z
type: "forum-post"
source: "bitcointalk"
sourceUrl: "https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=626.msg6572#msg6572"
author: "knightmb"
participants:
  - name: "knightmb"
    slug: "knightmb"
description: "Context post by knightmb in BitcoinTalk topic 626. after msg6542."
isSatoshi: false
tags: []
quotes:
  - id: "q1"
    person: "bytemaster"
    date: "2010-07-30T01:05:40.000Z"
---

> Could someone help me understand why it matters that hashing is 2x faster?  If everyone were to upgrade the coin inflation rate would still remain the same.  Thus there is a "slight" advantage to early adopters.  I guess some could say it gives "honest nodes" more time and thus makes it even harder for dishonest nodes to gain an edge.
> 
> The #1 aspect if a currency is divisibility and fixed supply and the relative value of the coins will adjust automatically relative to the supply of goods available to buy.  So I would think we would want to focus on aspects other than "generation speed" first.

Quite simply to level the playing field for coin generation and to help maintain block generation at a stable rate. If everyone was limited to just 100 khash/s by the client, someone would just compile a client that does not have the limit and load it up on a server farm where they could generate 10,000 khash/s per machine. It would put the coin generation supply in the hands of who ever had a large amount of money to invest in servers and discourage everyone else from trying to mint coin. If we could trust that clients would only act as transaction nodes and that everyone would get a fair shot at coin generation then no one would care if the client was generating at 5 khash/s all the time.

So in a perfect world, no one would care that they can generate 2 or 3 times faster than someone else, but we don't live in a perfect world.  Wink
