---
title: "Re: (quoted post by BlueSky)"
date: 2010-02-06T13:26:39.000Z
type: "forum-post"
source: "bitcointalk"
sourceUrl: "https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=44.msg255#msg255"
author: "BlueSky"
participants:
  - name: "BlueSky"
    slug: "bluesky"
description: "Quoted post by BlueSky in BitcoinTalk topic 44."
isSatoshi: false
tags: []
---

That is pretty divisible(enough for the moment), which means that  serves all the functions of money- "Money is a matter of functions four, a medium, a measure, a standard, a store." That is, money functions as a medium of exchange, a unit of account, a standard of deferred payment, and a store of value."-wikipedia

I must thank Satoshi for his work (although the groundwork was done during the 80's, algorythms etc. this is the first useful implementation and it's effects are profound). 

I live in PRChina, combining Freenet, Tor, I2P there is the framework for free,anonymous discussion and transfer of information(something that is prevented here, sometimes with serious penalties). Add to this BitCoin and we now have an underground market free from the tyrany and scrutinising eye of the state. This will allow an alternative, free China to develope under the nose of the state machinery.

My understanding is that Bitcoin cannot be suppressed without suppressing the internet as a whole, is this correct?

I would like to give Satoshi a donation, but sadly R&B(ReminBi, literally "The Peoples Money") is not a world traded currency and sending a payment in a foreign currency is expensive & complicated. If I could give a gift, to a value of R&B500(about $70US)? Or if wished open a currency exchange for /R&B?

One thing I will do is have some computer science students translate the application to Chinese, after Spring Festival.

NewLiberty- 
The lazy way would be for me to peg my exchange rate to yours and let you do the calculations. Otherwise I would need to know the total amount of  in circulation and the amount of goods that can be purchased with it(this is a Austrian economist view of measuring the value I think?), just what is the amount in circulation?

What do you mean "keep playing the game"?

Also, what do you sell more,  or $US?
