---
title: "Mac Client Problems Outlined..."
date: 2010-08-01T01:52:47.000Z
type: "forum-post"
source: "bitcointalk"
sourceUrl: "https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=660.msg6875#msg6875"
author: "ArrowJ"
participants:
  - name: "ArrowJ"
    slug: "arrowj"
description: "Thread starter by ArrowJ in BitcoinTalk topic 660."
isSatoshi: false
tags: []
---

Hardware
MacBook Pro 2.4 GHz Intel Core 2 Duo (Model 4,1)
2 GB 667 MHz DDR2 SDRAM

Software
Mac OS X 10.6.4 Snow Leopard
Bitcoin 0.3.7 (according to Bitcoin >> About)

Problems
Preferences: the preferences I have tried all have zero effect as far as I can tell. "Minimize to the tray instead of the taskbar" & "Minimize to the tray on close" do nothing (including effecting the cpu usage...see below). Start Bitcoin on system startup is grayed out although I have added it manually to my login items. I have not tried "Limit coin generation to 'x' processors" or "Connect through socks4 proxy:", but I can only guess that these options are not working either.

CPU Usage: when generating coins top shows Bitcoin at ~187% CPU...this seems extreme? A friend just explained what a "nice process" is. Sorry.

Crash On Close: about ever other time I attempt to close Bitcoin using Bitcoin >> Quit the app crashes rather than closing like a friendly app should.

Coin Generation: frankly I am trusting that this is NOT a bug, but just bad luck. I have been running the app for a few weeks now with zero generation. Again, I assume this is bad luck, but considering the other problems I wanted to mention it in case others were noticing this that were using my setup as well.

-----------
If there are any known solution to these problems or if there is anything I can do to help sort them out please let me know. Thanks!
