---
title: "Re: (quoted post by joe)"
date: 2010-10-23T08:09:17.000Z
type: "forum-post"
source: "bitcointalk"
sourceUrl: "https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1530.msg18155#msg18155"
author: "joe"
participants:
  - name: "joe"
    slug: "joe"
description: "Quoted post by joe in BitcoinTalk topic 1530."
isSatoshi: false
tags: []
---

[Quote from: theymos on October 21, 2010, 10:00:26 PM](#msg17955)
> Dhaw sent me some of his debug.log files. Symptoms I saw:
> - In most of the files his block count remains "stuck" at 1698.
> - In one file he accepted blocks beyond that, but it went back to 1698 after he restarted Bitcoin.
> - Any blocks he receives after 1698 he probably considers invalid. I haven't seen the actual block rejection (it keeps getting removed by the auto-trim), but his debug.log is full of "block xxx have" messages for blocks that he clearly doesn't recognize as valid.
> - He is connected to real peers. He connected successfully to IRC, and he was able to connect to me with -addnode. I verified at my end that he is successfully sending getblocks messages.

What does it take for a client to reject an incoming block from the network? If we know this we can work backwards and find out why he wants to reject every new block. There must be a transaction in the main chain 1699 or prior that his client disagrees with.

In any case, all the 1000s of bitcoins he generated were generated into a chain branch that only he was participating on, so they are worthless on the main chain. He would be generating 50 every 5 minutes being the only participant on that branch. The other curiosity is why he stood at 1698; this should have eventually started going up by 1 every 5 minutes when he recalculated difficulty.
