---
title: "Re: (quoted post by Odin)"
date: 2010-07-30T00:24:46.000Z
type: "forum-post"
source: "bitcointalk"
sourceUrl: "https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=612.msg6554#msg6554"
author: "Odin"
participants:
  - name: "Odin"
    slug: "odin"
description: "Quoted post by Odin in BitcoinTalk topic 612."
isSatoshi: false
tags: []
---

[Quote from: jgarzik on July 29, 2010, 11:22:54 PM](#msg6545)
> Yeah, some sort of virtual machine like qemu/KVM is really the best way to go, for older distro support.

Just to clear up any (potential) misconception, from the use of the phrase "for older distro support".  Just because you compiled your application with an older distro doesn't mean it doesn't work on a newer distro many libraries are backwardly compatible in that way.

When they do change major DSO version (incompatible or breaking changes) some distributions still provide the ability to install the older compat libraries.  Its easier for a new distro to find older compat libraries than it is for an older distro to use a newer GLIBC.

I am somewhat asserting that, if it is indeed possible to compile with older versions (because the features the newer versions add are not actually required by the application) then this version that should be made available via a single binary download (since it will work with the widest audience).

Also to repeat, that the OpenSUSE Build Service is like a remote virtualized service which you can use compile your application on multiple major distributions and the output is a bunch of packages tailored to suit each distro.

The clear problem I see is not with the support for aux lbiraries (Xlib,GTK+,OpenSSL,freetype) but with basic GLIBC and GCC libstdc++.  The problem with this is that you can't expect to simply place the DLLs you need in the same directory as the bitcoin executable and fix up LD_LIBRARY_PATH (man ld.so) so it can see them.

For example lets say that it was compiled with an older GTK+ than is available for your distribution of choice (a DSO major release change, this is indicated in the 2nd "0" in the /usr/lib{,64}/libgtk+-x11-2.0.so.0.1800.9) - note it is still zero, this indicates long term stability re-backward compatibility.  Well it is possible to easily fix this problem without installing the libraries by fixing them up with LD_LIBRARY_PATH.  But for glibc solving the problem in this way is not so straightforward.
