---
title: "Re: URI-scheme for bitcoin"
date: 2010-07-21T12:47:06.000Z
type: "forum-post"
source: "bitcointalk"
sourceUrl: "https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=55.msg4719#msg4719"
author: "melvster"
participants:
  - name: "melvster"
    slug: "melvster"
description: "Context post by melvster in BitcoinTalk topic 55. after msg4008."
isSatoshi: false
tags: []
quotes:
  - id: "q1"
    person: "Karmicads"
    personSlug: "karmicads"
    date: "2010-05-01T06:06:53.000Z"
    sourceEntryId: "forum/bitcointalk/topic-55/2010-05-01-karmicads-msg1038"
---

<!-- quote: q1 -->
> I'm wondering if anybody is doing anything about this idea, as I have been researching the possibility of implementing some Internet browser functionality, as per this thread and the wonderful developments described here. It seems that it may be easier first steps, (I'm learning as I go) to try this out and include it with whatever other features the Firefox add-on evolves.
>
> Before this can happen there needs to be a consensus about what form the URI would take. I have done some quick research on the URI schemes and most approaches are frowned upon without W3C approval, there is one category whereby the W3C approves a tentative URI scheme and holds it in reserve, with no guarantees (like a provisional patent), but by far the most suitable scheme, seems to be the magnet URI, which was designed to find a resource by the hash being a product of its content uniqueness, rather than by specific address. Magnet was intended for use by applications on peer to peer networks and has reserved parameters for reference to application specific data. Basically, you simply preface the application specific parameter with an x as in xbitcoin1:?

This looks very cool!

I'm part of the dev team that works with Tim Berners-Lee of the W3C on web standard based projects.

I can run the idea of a bitcoin scheme being registered by some of the folks there ... but to be honest it may be overkill for what you need.

Why not use RDF(a) to model a bitcoin address in, for example, HTML5.

You just need either 1) a very simple ontology

<meta property="bitcoin:address" content="u34827uirhe243" />

Or use the FOAF and SOIC ontologies via OnlineAccount.

I've posted some notices to some of the W3C folks this morning, as well as the GNU Social / Diaspora working with the FSF, and the payswarm folks that are looking to standardize micorpayments.

Bottom line, I think the markup is very easy to capture the semantics of bitcoin in HTML.

Love the project, hope we can all work something out! Smiley
