---
title: "Re: They want to delete the Wikipedia article"
date: 2010-07-20T02:30:38.000Z
type: "forum-post"
source: "bitcointalk"
sourceUrl: "https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=342.msg4415#msg4415"
author: "bdonlan"
participants:
  - name: "bdonlan"
    slug: "bdonlan"
description: "Context post by bdonlan in BitcoinTalk topic 342. before msg4508."
isSatoshi: false
tags: []
quotes:
  - id: "q1"
    person: "FreeMoney"
    personSlug: "freemoney"
    date: "2010-07-19T13:13:49.000Z"
  - id: "q2"
    person: "NewLibertyStandard"
    personSlug: "newlibertystandard"
    date: "2010-07-19T13:27:32.000Z"
---

<!-- quote: q1 -->
> I don't really get it, if there was a group of 11,000 UFO researchers who called themselves UFORO and spent hours every night searching would they get no article unless someone who did not want to join took them seriously enough to write peer reviewed papers?
> 
> I think BitCoin has great potential, blah blah, but that doesn't matter. Thousands of people are doing something that's at least moderately interesting. I can't see what the harm of putting a neutrally worded article in the worlds largest encyclopedia is. It isn't like the thing is going to get to heavy to sit on a shelf.

The thing is, if they allow an exception to the policy once, then people will ask for exceptions _all the time_. The rule is really quite simple: "significant coverage in reliable sources that are independent of the subject". Independent means the papers on bitcoin are out, as is the forum - after all, anything can have lots of non-independent sources. And a single slashdot article is clearly not 'significant coverage' (or reliable coverage 😉.

<!-- quote: q2 -->
> The idea behind bitcoin has been around in research white papers for years. I imagine we should be able to list such research papers as a source. Bitcoins is the first time this theoretical idea which has been around for quite a while, has actually been implemented. I don't have sources available at the moment, but if I get some time, I'll try to look around. If anybody can find these historical research papers and discussions from before Bitcoin was started, please post links to them.

You can reference them, but they don't count for notability, as they either don't discuss bitcoin itself (and instead discuss the general concept), or they are not independent (ie, they're written by Satoshi).
