---
title: "Re: (context post by Insti)"
date: 2010-08-11T21:25:01.000Z
type: "forum-post"
source: "bitcointalk"
sourceUrl: "https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=782.msg8800#msg8800"
author: "Insti"
participants:
  - name: "Insti"
    slug: "insti"
description: "Context post by Insti in BitcoinTalk topic 782. before msg8803."
isSatoshi: false
tags: []
quotes:
  - id: "q1"
    person: "gridecon"
    date: "2010-08-11T12:08:59.000Z"
    sourceEntryId: "forum/bitcointalk/topic-782/2010-08-11-gridecon-msg8799"
---

Your 'wallet' is more like your own personal bank
It contains many different accounts. (in Bitcoin these are called Addresses)

Each Address has a balance associated with it, how much money is in it.
Your Wallet balance is the sum of all the balances of the Addresses in your wallet.

When you perform a transaction, it empties enough Addresses to make up the required output amount, but since it has to completely empty each Address there is often money left over in this case the 'change' is returned to you at a new Address.

In this case Stone Man did a transaction that sent all the money from 700+ addresses into a single address and therefore had a wallet containing only one Address that had any money in it.

That Address/Account was emptied as part of the 1BTC transaction and the 8999 change was returned to a new Address to which he lost the private key.

If he had not consolidated all his coins into one Address, he would have lost far fewer coins.

I think the moral of the story might be: "Don't put all your eggs in one basket"

<!-- quote: q1 -->
> So far as I can tell, there is no way from the GUI client to actually get at the information of what coins in your balance are held at what addresses? Given that the addresses are what is "really important" that information might be of value.

No you can't find out which addresses have which balances using the current GUI.

I think it is "very important" information.  
I also think it is important to be able to chose which addresses are the source of transactions.

This is an example of why the wallet metaphor is bad.
