---
title: "Re: (context post by FreeMoney)"
date: 2010-08-11T20:56:42.000Z
type: "forum-post"
source: "bitcointalk"
sourceUrl: "https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=782.msg8796#msg8796"
author: "FreeMoney"
participants:
  - name: "FreeMoney"
    slug: "freemoney"
description: "Context post by FreeMoney in BitcoinTalk topic 782. before msg8803."
isSatoshi: false
tags: []
quotes:
  - id: "q1"
    person: "gridecon"
    date: "2010-08-11T11:46:08.000Z"
    sourceEntryId: "forum/bitcointalk/topic-782/2010-08-11-gridecon-msg8795"
  - id: "q2"
    person: "lachesis"
    date: "2010-08-11T08:57:20.000Z"
    sourceEntryId: "forum/bitcointalk/topic-782/2010-08-11-lachesis-msg8772"
    parent: "q1"
  - id: "q3"
    person: "Ground Loop"
    date: "2010-08-11T17:31:24.000Z"
    sourceEntryId: "forum/bitcointalk/topic-782/2010-08-11-ground-loop-msg8768"
    parent: "q2"
---

<!-- quote: q1 -->
> <!-- quote: q2 -->
> > > <!-- quote: q3 -->
> > > > News to me is that *all* your coins are at risk.  I thought it was just clumps of coins (previously received transactions) involved in the transaction, not my aggregate balance.  Yikes.
> > 
> > You were right before. The reason all of his coins were lost is that he first transfered all 9000 to himself, merging them into a single TxIn. If he had skipped that step and gone straight to sending himself 1, he would have only lost the smallest payment that he had previously received that was over 1.
> > 
> > I think the client needs to communicate TxIns and TxOuts better to the user. I don't know how to do that without being confusing, but there are real privacy, safety, and security implications in which coins the client chooses to transfer.
> 
> 
> Wait, I'm confused again. I thought the essence of the surprise was that Bitcoin is programmed to "empty your wallet" for EACH transaction. According to the description I read, when you send coins from address A in your wallet to address B externally, the transaction is actually done by sending ALL the coins out from address A, and the ones that aren't going to address B get sent to address C which is your own address - in other words, even if I'm only paying you a single bitcoin out of my 9000, I mail 1 bitcoin to you and 8999 to myself at a new address.
> 
> In other words (unless I'm confused), every transaction you make will result in your old, backed-up wallet addresses become emptied out.

My understanding is that it finds an address or addresses that have at least the number of coins you want to send and sends the change to a new address.

So if he had addresses with 1000, 2000, 2500, and 3500. It would have selected one of them (the lowest one?) and sent 1 away and sent all but 1 back to a new address of his. In this case he would not lose them all, just the remainder of what was in that one address.

It appears he had only 1 address with coins in it. This is probably because he got them all from the market in one go. If that is not the case, then I don't know why he would lose them all.
