---
title: "The Niche List"
date: 2010-09-23T16:00:16.000Z
type: "forum-post"
source: "bitcointalk"
sourceUrl: "https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1268.msg13828#msg13828"
author: "kiba"
participants:
  - name: "kiba"
    slug: "kiba"
description: "Quoted post by kiba in BitcoinTalk topic 1268."
isSatoshi: false
tags: []
---

This is Operation Economic Growth. Our mission is to grow the bitcoin economy by making everyone specialize in a narrow range of good and services.

Simply put, announce what you want to consume and I'll add it to the list. Somebody then will announce that he will try to enter that niche. There can be competition within niches too, but there are other niches to fill.

We'll hold those people "accountable" for their niches by plodding, encouraging, starting a thread and then getting disappointed when the service didn't come online etc. 

Wanted Niches:

1. craigslist like classified ads for locale.

2. "Mechanical Turk"-like site that list simple jobs for people to do. Suggested by noagendamarket in the Stable Exchange Rate? topic of the Economic forum.

3. Beer supply store. Malt, yeasts, hops, etc.

4. Plant store for selling various herbs and stuff.

6. Hacker Academy. Free educational video. Flat tutiion fee classes. Pay as you go for personal tutors.

7. Dating site that accept bitcoins.

8. Easy encryption and backup service.

Niche filled or being worked on:

1. Advertising clearing house like http://projectwonderful.com. Suggested by mskwik.(I used projectwonderful to make tiny bit of money. I wonder if I can get more money from a bitcoin advertising clearing house) noagenda offered a large bounty on it and being worked on Biomike.

2. Download site like rapidshare and other crappy host. Inconvenient captcha and required paypal. Bitcoin can possibly take both roles and streamline the whole process. Suggested by Kiba. Taken by Hippich. Eventually sprawned 3 competitors.

3. Freelancer site. Taken by whichspace.

4. Pizza order system. You can order on the web, from the commandline, from your smartphone, sms, etc. Taken by mizerydearia.
