---
title: "Re: (quoted post by Macho)"
date: 2010-08-25T03:03:03.000Z
type: "forum-post"
source: "bitcointalk"
sourceUrl: "https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=898.msg11101#msg11101"
author: "Macho"
participants:
  - name: "Macho"
    slug: "macho"
description: "Quoted post by Macho in BitcoinTalk topic 898."
isSatoshi: false
tags: []
quotes:
  - id: "q1"
    person: "satoshi"
    date: "2010-08-24T14:51:12.000Z"
---

<!-- quote: q1 -->
> If you're so paranoid that you're getting hysterical over this, then surely you're paranoid enough that if a warning message displays on the status bar, you'll check the website and forum.

Satochi the creator of the decentralized pseudo-anonymous trading system not reliant on trust and using strong cryptography is calling us paranoid LOL

Not wanting any remote tampering of the software running on my PC is not paranoid but a matter of common sense I believe. Of course it is a good idea but it should be enabled ONLY when specifically requested by the user. It should be opt-in as opposed to opt-out. There is a huge difference between the two (ask Facebook). If it's going to be enabled by default it is going to be perceived by many as an exploitable/malicious feature counting on the fact that most people will not realize/notice it is even there. And I wouldn't say these concerns wouldn't be justified ... It doesn't matter that you have best interest of the community at your heart which I'm sure you have, the system was designed not to rely on any kind of central trust and that principle should not be broken.

Why not use -enablesafety to enable this feature instead of expecting the user to disable it? If I want my software to respond to remote alerts I should specifically enable it, that way it is ensured that I'm aware of what I'm doing and I'm doing it of my own will. When it is enabled by default a lot of people may not even realize this "feature" is enabled and perceive remote disabling as a breach of trust ... I know I would if I wasn't aware of that possibility and the software would suddenly stopped working and I would discover it was disabled by remote by someone I gave no conscious permission to do so.

I hope you'll consider this suggestion ... thanks
