---
title: "Re: URI-scheme for bitcoin"
date: 2010-06-16T06:14:05.000Z
type: "forum-post"
source: "bitcointalk"
sourceUrl: "https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=55.msg1597#msg1597"
author: "lachesis"
participants:
  - name: "lachesis"
    slug: "lachesis"
description: "Context post by lachesis in BitcoinTalk topic 55. quoted by msg4008."
isSatoshi: false
threadId: "bt-uri-scheme-for-bitcoin"
tags: []
---

> [Quote from: satoshi on June 16, 2010, 12:15:47 AM](#msg1596)
> But as long as the link is already doing the typing for you, I don't see much benefit in using a domain address instead of bitcoin address.  With a bitcoin address, the user can't send an unidentified payment.  They can't send payment until they've been given a correct bitcoin address to send to.
> 
> What would be nice about sending by domain is you could visually verify who it's going to.

I think that hiding the complexity of Bitcoin addresses from the casual user is a good thing. Barring that, it should be possible to embed an observable but unalterable message with address transactions. Is there some reason this is technically infeasible?

> [Quote from: satoshi on June 16, 2010, 12:15:47 AM](#msg1596)
> A more crucial issue is what if the browser isn't allowed to connect to 127.0.0.1:
> http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=63.msg1589#msg1589
> 
> and if that's true, then what about that example freenet link that had 127.0.0.1 in it?

I think you're misunderstanding the issue. My browser will always be able to go to 127.0.0.1 (barring some strange IE settings or a virus). If I type the address into the URL bar or click a link, it will work fine. However, it isn't possible to use Javascript to complete POST requests between domains (or ports on the same domain).

Try clicking this link:
http://127.0.0.1/
You probably don't see anything (unless you're running a web server on your system), but the browser happily tries to take you there.

XMLHTTPRequest is what we were discussing in that other thread.
