---
title: "Re: (context post by knightmb)"
date: 2010-08-03T19:02:13.000Z
type: "forum-post"
source: "bitcointalk"
sourceUrl: "https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=661.msg7303#msg7303"
author: "knightmb"
participants:
  - name: "knightmb"
    slug: "knightmb"
description: "Context post by knightmb in BitcoinTalk topic 661. before msg7356."
isSatoshi: false
tags: []
---

[Quote from: gavinandresen on August 03, 2010, 06:38:44 PM](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=661.msg7293#msg7293)
> Transactions won't disappear if they're valid.  They'll just move to the longer block chain.
> 
> Invalid transactions would be somebody trying to double-spend across the split chains (which would be tricky-- you'd have to run a modified client, or copy your wallet to a machine working on the other block chain).
> 
> Or if the split lasted long enough (more than 100 blocks), transactions that involve generated coins on the shorter chain would be invalid at the merge.
> 
> For shorter splits, immature generated coins on the shorter chain will disappear when the chains merge, but that would be about the worst consequences for honest users (unless you were unlucky enough to get an invalid coin from somebody trying to cheat).

Interesting info, so other than some double-spending issues, as long as the block chain isn't separated for more than 100 or so blocks (or 16+ hours), it should be able to merge back to together without too many issues. So coin generation would probably be the only victim (if no double-spending cheats took place), or more technically, coin generation would be assigned to someone else that was generating at the same time as those that split off.

If there a hard coded limit on split delay? Meaning if I had a small network split from the public network, spent some coin around, came back a few days later and got them sync up to the public network (other than coin generation if it happened) transactions should be fine?
