---
title: "Re: RFC: ship block chain 1-74000 with release tarballs?"
date: 2010-11-25T23:19:55.000Z
type: "forum-post"
source: "bitcointalk"
sourceUrl: "https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1931.msg24499#msg24499"
author: "MrFlibble"
participants:
  - name: "MrFlibble"
    slug: "mrflibble"
description: "Context post by MrFlibble in BitcoinTalk topic 1931. before msg24662."
isSatoshi: false
threadId: "bt-rfc-ship-block-chain-1-74000-with-release-tarballs"
tags: []
---

My first reaction was "+1 for fast setup", but most of the 24hr delay I suffered was local disc.  Disabling fsync (?) on the database while in catch-up mode would help the most.

> [Quote from: witchspace on November 25, 2010, 01:37:13 PM](#msg24352)
> Huh, isn't P2P supposed to be faster because you can download from many users at once instead of one source?
> (also the reason why some gaming companies use bittorrent to distribute updates)

Good point.  But since the sha-256 of the block is wired into the code, it is perfectly reasonable to ship the data too.  When the blockchain is over 500meg, I think transfer efficiency will become important.

We have options,

- ship blockchain from SF until it's not politely within their AUP, then re-evaluate.  I couldn't find a file size limit, even for the project website service (only a quick surf of their docs).
- ship 'small' binaries from SF, and 'large' releases with data via BitTorrent
- ship 'small' release, including the .torrent for the blockchain and a fetcher script. This looks for one of three popular command line BitTorrent clients for the platform and uses that to fetch the chain, or whinge if it can't.

http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/sourceforge/wiki/Developer%20web says

Hmm, shipping the blockchain for each binary arch would be perverse.

Then, who provides the tracker & seed for the data?  Someone with incentive or community spirit?  Well, this forum+wiki seem to live on http://www.slicehost.com/ => min $20/month.  It could probably share without hurting the website, and (I think) the seed could be severely throttled to make other BT seeds pull more weight.
