---
title: "Re: (context post by laszlo)"
date: 2010-06-04T02:45:21.000Z
type: "forum-post"
source: "bitcointalk"
sourceUrl: "https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=158.msg1343#msg1343"
author: "laszlo"
participants:
  - name: "Laszlo Hanyecz"
    slug: "laszlo-hanyecz"
description: "Context post by laszlo in BitcoinTalk topic 158. before msg1582."
isSatoshi: false
tags: []
---

Bank sites and such use end to end encryption which makes intercepting more difficult and there is usually two way authentication.  The website authenticates itself to you by showing you your personally selected image/phrase, thus you recognize that this is the site you wanted to visit, and then you authenticate to the website so they recognize you as the customer you claim to be.  It's not perfect but it's like putting a pad lock on a box full of money to keep honest people honest.  Sometimes they use a bigger/thicker pad lock so the effort/gain ratio makes it not really worth trying to break it.

I agree with you in a way about security, if it's too inconvenient then it's not very useful... though encryption and authentication are generally good enough to deter trivial things and they provide some reassurance.

It is certainly convenient to be able to send to a paypal email address, but even there you get two way authentication.  PayPal will display the name of the person you're sending to, before you commit to how much you're sending.  PayPal is very popular and is riddled with fraud.. if Bitcoin was accepted on Ebay and the IP address based sending was used as it is today, it would never get there because people would just intercept it along the way, TOR or not.

If you've used ssh you know that uses two way authentication as well - you verify the server's key visually before you present your own authentication credentials.  This technique is problematic in a way because if it's the first time you're connecting you don't know what it should be.. you have to call up the person operating the server and ask them to read you the key.  I think the idea of putting it into the URL or other address notation is that you declare what you expect it to be and the local client will tell you if the peer presents something different.  I suppose you could go the ssh route, just let someone accept whatever is presented.. though right now the key is dynamically generated, it could be changed so that it would present some key that changes once a day or something.. then you could show it on the web site that's expecting the payment, but then why wouldn't you just show the bitcoin address itself and send that way.

I guess I don't really understand your point with simplification.. if you have to copy/paste an address already, what does it matter if it's an internet address, a DNS address or a bitcoin address?
