---
title: "Re: Not a suggestion"
date: 2010-08-13T22:20:50.000Z
type: "forum-post"
source: "bitcointalk"
sourceUrl: "https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=770.msg9120#msg9120"
author: "Red"
participants:
  - name: "Red"
    slug: "red"
description: "Context post by Red in BitcoinTalk topic 770. after msg9074, quotes Satoshi."
isSatoshi: false
tags: []
quotes:
  - id: "q1"
    person: "satoshi"
    personSlug: "satoshi-nakamoto"
    date: "2010-08-13T19:28:47.000Z"
    sourceEntryId: "forum/bitcointalk/topic-770/2010-08-13-re-not-a-suggestion"
---

<!-- quote: q1 -->
> Crypto may offer a way to do "key blinding".  I did some research and it was obscure, but there may be something there.  "group signatures" may be related.
> 
> There's something here in the general area:
> http://www.users.zetnet.co.uk/hopwood/crypto/rh/
> 
> What we need is a way to generate additional blinded variations of a public key.  The blinded variations would have the same properties as the root public key, such that the private key could generate a signature for any one of them.  Others could not tell if a blinded key is related to the root key, or other blinded keys from the same root key.  These are the properties of blinding.  Blinding, in a nutshell, is x = (x * large_random_int) mod m.
> 
> When paying to a bitcoin address, you would generate a new blinded key for each use.
> 
> Then you need to be able to sign a signature such that you can't tell that two signatures came from the same private key.  I'm not sure if always signing a different blinded public key would already give you this property.  If not, I think that's where group signatures comes in.  With group signatures, it is possible for something to be signed but not know who signed it.
> 
> As an example, say some unpopular military attack has to be ordered, but nobody wants to go down in history as the one who ordered it.  If 10 leaders have private keys, one of them could sign the order and you wouldn't know who did it.

This is a really cool idea. I think I see where you were going with it. It took me a few tries to fit it all together. I'm a bit slow.

I'm correct, you were suggesting that you could sign an out-point hash with a single-use blinded key.

Where the blinded public key is equivalent to the public key of the transaction's bitcoin address. Say the bitcoin address' public/private key pair was P/p. The the blinded public keys would be P1, P2, P3...Pn. Where each can validate anything signed with the private key (p).

So upon creation when you submit the out-point hash for validation it appears as signed by P1. However, when receiver submits the out-point for cancellation it would be signed P2 or anything besides P1 (since it is already of public record). Both calculated signatures would be the same, but the public key would change. That would signify only someone in possession of the common private key could have generated it.

That is genius!
